NYAMAGANA District Commissioner Amina Makilagi has urged women to take advantage of technological opportunities for growth of their small industries and contribute to the country’s industrialisation agenda. Ms Makilagi said small businesses and industries are critical in building foundation for growth of industrial sector and offering employment opportunities for raising both individual and national income. She made the statement on Wednesday at Igoma Ward in Nyamagana District while addressing women in an event organised by Mwanza City Councils to mark the International Women’s Day, yesterday. The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is “Digit ALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality”. Ms Makilagi said Mwanza City Council works hard to empower all women economically by creating conducive environment for them to access loans and setting aside 10 per cent of its own revenue for issuing loans to women, people with disabilities and youths. “The government wants to see every Tanzanian who conducts small business can tap the international market, it’s time to use the emerging market to transform our production tech,” said Ms Makilagi. Adding: “We need small, medium and large businesses for our country to have vibrant processing and manufacturing industries to which women contribution is necessary.” She hinted that the Mwanza City Council in three years consecutively (2020/21, 2021/22 and 2022/23 fiscal years) has disbursed a total of 1.4bn/-, from 10 per cent of its revenues to loan 84 groups of women entrepreneurs, which encompass nearly 20,000 women. Ms Makilagi urged women entrepreneurs to use the money for intended purpose of upgrading their small industries and businesses while repaying the mentioned councils on time. Besides, Ms Makilagi said in the 2022/23 fiscal year alone Mwanza City Councils has allocated 1.8bn/-for people with disabilities, youths and women. Earlier, Igoma Ward’s Chama Cha Mapinduzi’s (CCM) Women Wing (UWT) Secretary, Ms Wande Masanja said business managerial skill was inadequate among women entrepreneurs. She called upon the government and other stakeholders to equip women with such skills so that they operate businesses professionally and profitably.