THE National Service (JKT) has said it will intensify its measures to have enough infrastructures that will see all Form Six leavers joining compulsory National Service training, as it revealed that it will later this year mark its 60 years anniversary since its inception. President Samia Suluhu Hassan is expected to grace the 60-year anniversary of JKT on July 10, 2023, during an event that will be coloured by a special parade mounted by the army, according to the Chief of National Service (CNS), Major General Rajabu Mabele. According to the CNS, in its strategies, JKT was fully committed to ensuring that all Form Six leavers were joining the compulsory military training in its quest to inculcate patriotism to them and the love for their nation. He made the commitment when addressing editors and journalists at the Chamwino based JKT headquarters in the country’s capital, Dodoma. Regarding the commemoration of sixth years since the establishment of JKT, Maj Gen Mabele said that the National Service had its routine assessment programme in every 10 years which ought to be accompanied by various activities. On July 10 this year, he said, JKT will be marking its 60 years in style, with Dr Samia expected to be the guest of honor. On that day, he added, there will be a series of activities including a special parade, entertainment from arts and culture groups as well as showcasing products produced by the National Service economic wing (Suma-JKT), schools and colleges owned by the National Service. The 60 years anniversary of the National Service, according to the CNS, will be marked at Dodoma’s popular Jamhuri Stadium under the theme: ‘Youth Parenting, Production and Defence for the Welfare of the Nation’. However, Maj Gen Mabele said, there would be a series of activities of the celebrations which will be marked between July 01 and 09 ahead of the climax to be commemorated on July 10. Among them include exhibitions of several services offered by Suma-JKT as well as provision of medical services and free counselling to be held at JKT house located in Medeli East to be held on July 01. Earlier on JKT Head of Administration, Brigadier General, Hassan Mabena said that as the National Service marks 60 years anniversary, a lot of achievements had been attained, adding that more plans were in pipeline to ensure that it intensifies  its services to Tanzanians. The chairperson of the organizing committee of the commemoration of 60 years of JKT, Colonel George Kazaula said the army was well prepared to ensuring that the celebrations were conducted well. “We will engage different stakeholders from both public and private institutions as well as financial institutions, among others,” he said.