SEVEN people out of nine, who died instantly in the road accident that happened on Monday, have been identified, including a boy child aged one year and five months. All bodies have been taken by their relatives and subsequently buried in different parts of Kigoma and Katavi regions. In the same vein, four out of the 36 people injured in the road crush have been referred to Bugando Zonal Referral Hospital in Mwanza for specialised treatment, while the remaining 32 have been admitted to Katavi Regional Referral Hospital. Updating journalists late on Wednesday Tanganyika District Chief Medical Officer Dr Alex Mrema named the identified deceased as a minor Edigar Gilidas aged 17 months and two other children from the same family –Bela Mashaka (8) and Eliud Mashaka (10) who were buried at Nguruka Village in Kigoma Region. Others on the list are Anisia Kapindula (52) and her daughter Antonia Kapindula (27) who were buried in Makanyagio – Mpanda municipality, Katavi, Eva Sylivester aged 40 (Nguruka – Uvinza, Kigoma) and Toa Nzikwi aged 30 years old who were buried in  Kasulu District in Kigoma Region. “However, the bodied of two people whose names are yet to be established are still preserved at Katavi region’s mortuary waiting for their relatives for burial arrangements,” he further explained. Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC) Ms Mwanamvua Mrindoko led hundreds of Mpanda municipality to pay their last respects to the seven identified deceased. Apart from conveying a massage of condolences to the friends and relatives of those who lost their loved ones, RC also provided 1.0m/- to the families of each deceased person. “The grisly road carnage has caused enormous loss to the nation, as we lost the workforce and the families have lost breadwinners,” explained the RC. On Monday, nine people died on the spot among them a pregnant woman while 36 others were injured after the bus they were travelling in plunged into a ditch at Nkondwe Mountain Valley in Tanganyika District, Katavi Region. Katavi Regional Police Commander (RPC) Mr Ally Makame confirmed the occurrence of tragic accident, saying in involved a bus- TATA model- with registration number T 506 DHH, property of Komba Company. “The grisly road carnage occurred on March 6th, this year at around 3:45 pm when the passenger bus plunged into a valley 75 metres deep,” said the RPC. One of the survivor, a resident of Mpanda town, Philbert Focus said when the bus was descending Mount Nkondwe, a stretch  with  dangerous corners,  it suddenly started accelerating at high speed, suggesting that the vehicle experienced break failure. It was at that moment when the driver failed to control it before it plunged into valley.