WITH one match to go before the end of the 24th round of the Premier League, scarcity of goals has been witnessed in seven fixtures that saw 12 goals netted. The round is set to be completed with a blistering Dar es Salaam derby between Simba and Young Africans on March 16th in the city. This is probably going to be a championship decisive encounter bearing in mind that a win to Simba will reduce the current 8-point gap to 5 points, though can’t assure the championship to the pursuers. On the other hand, a victory will enable Yanga stamp  a 11-point lead at the summit of the table and will hand Simba a tall order to beat. However, the biggest win so far in the 24th round has been recorded at Liti Stadium in Singida where Singida Big Stars defeated Mtibwa Sugar 2-0. Singida’s success continues to make the top three finish battle against Azam very exciting as both have collected  47 points from 24 matches and each has won 14 games, drawing five times and losing five games apiece. They only differ in the scored and conceded goals with Azam scoring 39 goals against 28 goals netted by the Singida-based counterpart. In terms of conceded goals, Azam have let past 24 goals against 19 conceded by the latter hence, this statistics guarantees Azam to currently accommodate the third slot on the log. Moreover, two arenas yielded 2-1 wins when  Namungo outclassed Geita Gold with a 2-1 win at Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi as well as Ihefu who defeated Dodoma Jiji 2-1 at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. Ihefu continue to propel in the league as their winning streak either at home or away continues and so far, the Mbarali-based team is  the most improved especially in the second round of the campaign. Four venues generated slim 1-0 victories which are Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam where Azam beat  KMC 1-0 to bag maximum points from a tense fixture. At Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga, Coastal Union hammered Tanzania Prisons 1-0 so as Kagera Sugar defeated Ruvu Shooting 1-0 at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro. Likewise, at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha, PolisiTanzania succumbed to a 1-0 setback from Mbeya City as Mwinyi Zahera’s team continue to drop vital points.