TANZANIAN golfers are likely to miss this year’s Entebbe Ladies Open set to tee off in Uganda tomorrow. The annual tournament is jointly organised by Uganda Ladies Golf Union (ULGU) and Entebbe Golf Club of Uganda and it will climax on Saturday at the par 71  Entebbe course. That was revealed by Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) honourary secretary Madina Iddi from Arusha on Wednesday that until yesterday the union had not received any entry from Tanzania for the 36-hole showdown. The 13th edition of Entebbe Ladies Golf Open is held as part of the celebration of International Women’s Day which is marked annually March 8th. “No one has shown interest to participate in the Entebbe Ladies Open. as per government directives, anyone wishing to participate in any outside-the-country event, must inform the Union so that to get  the government’s permission,” she said. “I wanted so much to go there myself as it is one of my favourite events, but I have other responsibilities, I can no longer go there this time around,” she added. Madina said she will now prepare for Kenya Ladies Open coming May this year. This is the second invitation the ladies missed this year due to financial constraints and lack of sponsorship, which she noted as the  major reasons behind the failure. Two months ago, they missed the South African Women’s Amateur Stroke Play & Match Play Championships the high-ranked Women’s Golf South Africa (WGSA) invited event. “I think financial constraints barred players from going there,” she stressed Madina is one of Tanzania’s top lady  golfers who played in  both South Africa and Entebbe ladies’ tours. Due to other responsibilities, she said she had to travel to Uganda a day before the tournament in last year’s event. However,she relished her dream after continuing to put the country into the spotlight to secure the runner-up position in Entebbe Ladies Open 2022. She was happy to represent the well country in the event that brought together golfers from hosts Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, Sweden, and Iceland as she  carded an aggregate 153 (78,75) gross to finish three shots inferior to champion  Peace Kabasweka who carded 150 (77,73). Madina herself had made history at the event after winning the title in 2013 as it is ten years since she won  the title.