VICE President Dr Philip Mpango has urged Tanzanians living in Azerbaijan to use their new found expertise and skills to strengthen developmental process in their home country. He advised them to understand that it was up to Tanzanians to develop their nation, therefore they should do everything in their power to bring about prosperity. “The government will continue to bring about development for all Tanzanians, including continued efforts to strengthen several sectors like Health, Education and Infrastructure, although we all have a role to play,” he stated. Dr Mpango made the remarks on Thursday in Baku City during a meeting with Tanzanians who reside in Azerbaijan. The VP further exhorted them to abide by Azerbaijani rules and regulations, as well as to observe the positive aspects of the nation and bring such lessons to Tanzania. The meeting was also attended by the Ambassador of Tanzania in Russia, Mr Fredrick Kibuta. Dr Mpango is in Azerbaijan to represent President Samia Suluhu Hassan at the summit of the Non-Aligned Movement contact group in response to Covid-19. He also reminded Tanzanians to continue promoting Tanzania and its existing attractions, the Kiswahili language and Tanzanian culture, as well as to be patriotic to their country. “You should also help other Tanzanians understand the educational opportunities available in non-aligned member states and how to obtain them,” Dr Mpango said. During the official opening of the meeting on Friday, Dr Mpango fronted a number of measures which can be adopted by the international community, particularly the NAM in the process to recover from the adverse impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic. The measures include promotion of research and development for home-grown solutions like biotechnology, manufacturing of vaccines, medical equipment, reagents and other life-saving commodities. The measures also consist of continuing to work in solidarity as well as strengthening the country’s surveillance capacities. During the summit, the VP noted that continuing to work together in solidarity to explore and promote international trade and investment, share best practices and promote economic cooperation is also considered as key to the recovery process. “There is need to strengthen our surveillance capacities to timely detect and prevent infectious diseases of public health concern, outlining initiatives such as building infrastructure, robust health systems and training the workforce for containment of outbreaks,” said Dr Mpango. The VP equally advocated for the promotion of proper nutrition and physical well-being of people, which are key to healthy living and body resilience against diseases. He stressed that Tanzania welcomed the establishment of the Financial Intermediary Fund (FIF) for pandemic Prevention, Preparedness and Response (PPR) under the G20 Indonesia’s Presidency, to address the current gaps in funding and to ensure the sustainability of its funding and WHO’s centrality in the governance framework. 