PARENTS and guardians with children who suffer from Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus conditions have been urged to take them to the hospital for treatment. According to experts, Spina bifida is a condition that affects the spine and is usually apparent at birth while Hydrocephalus is the buildup of fluid in the cavities (ventricles) deep within the brain. This was revealed recently by Kibamba Division Officer Beatrice Mbawala who represented the Ubungo District Commissioner Hashim Komba during the launch of the House of Hope, a centre under the Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Tanzania (ASBAHT) in Dar es Salaam. The centre supports parents with children who suffer from the complications. She advised women not to give up when they give birth to children with such conditions and instead they should attend clinic to enable their children get better health services. Ms Mbawala urged men not to abandon their children born with such conditions because they are human beings like others. On her part, the centre’s Acting Managing Director, Suma Mwaipopo said the centre has managed to help more than 100 parents with children with such conditions. She added that the centre has helped children and parents from various regions including Shinyanga, Mwanza and others. Parents with the children who suffer from the conditions are provided with services such as transport, food as well as helping them to acquire health insurance cover. ”This centre has been helping parents with children suffering from the disabilities by providing them with various services such as transport. When they come to the hospital we provide them with food, as well as helping them to get health insurance cover,” she added. On his part, the guardian of the centre, Mr Nobert Kyando asked the government to allocate an area at Kimara in Dar es Salaam for parents so that they carry out entrepreneurial activities to meet their personal needs. He said the women are carrying out various activities such as poultry, including cultivating vegetables that have served the centre for about six months. He added that to provide further support to women with children who have the conditions, the centre is working on a plan to start tailoring project which would require five sewing machines. On her part, a patient Lilian Patrick called on parents to make sure that children with such condition are taken to the hospital for treatment. She said that she was also born with Spina Bifida but she got treatment and now she is healthier and   now lives a normal life.