IN celebrating the International Women’s Day on March 8, one major daily newspaper featured a woman who is dedicating her life to fight Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) by encouraging regular exercise in society. Her story is in a feature titled: “How NCDs affect people’s lives, causing death” (Daily Blog, March 4, page 7). We catch-up with the writer somewhere in the latter half of the story, where he narrates what led to the lady adopting a different way of living: “An inappropriate appearance on TV due to overweight made Ms AM to change her lifestyle by ‘start’ eating a balanced diet and ‘involves’ conducting regular exercise”. The verbs “start” and “involve” are not in the form that they should be. We recommend the following: “An inappropriate appearance on TV due to overweight made Ms AM to change her lifestyle by ‘starting’ to eat a balanced diet and ‘getting involved’ in regular exercise”. It was not easy to implement her decision: “Her journey towards the movement of weight loss was not simple as she ‘face’ ups and ‘down’ when she started but she didn’t quit”. The phrase “face ups and down” needs some doctoring: “Her journey towards the movement of weight loss was not simple as she ‘faced’ ups and ‘downs’ when she started, but she didn’t quit”. Ms AM offers guidelines on weight losing and body exercising through the social media, so you have no excuse for being obese! Let us now turn to another feature article on the same page of the paper. It is titled: “The Open Secret behind Komarera Compensation”. There have been allegations from some quarters, that the villagers of Komarera, in Mara Region, whose land was the subject of a compulsory acquisition exercise, were not properly handled and that, indeed, some were short-changed. The village chairman is reported as saying that such allegations are baseless: “The ‘acquirement’ procedure and compensation process were transparent and participatory”. In our opinion, the noun “acquirement” is best substituted by its cousin noun: “acquisition”. The sentence would then acquire a slightly changed form: “The ‘acquisition’ and compensation processes were transparent and participatory”. Note that we have left out the noun “procedure” because it is reflected in the noun “process”. The Village Chairman has documents to support his stand: “We held a lot of village meetings and meeting minutes are here signed ‘with’ all ‘attendees’”. In this particular case, minutes are signed “by”, not “with”. So, a proposed rewrite is as follows: “We held many village meetings whose minutes are here, signed ‘by’ all ‘the attendees’”. A case was pointed out of one Ms MM who claims to have been underpaid for her land. However, according to the writer: “Obtained records ‘indicates’ that MM divided her land in four pieces and one ‘peace’ was paid 45.9m/=, 10.6m/=, 8.7m/= and 10.1m/= making total payment of more than 75m/=”. We have a few issues here: It is a ‘piece’ of land, not a ‘peace’ of land. We want peace in this Land, in this Country. It is the owner, who is paid for his/her piece(s) of land. The pieces themselves cannot receive the money. Besides, “records indicates” should be: “records indicate”. A rewrite is therefore well in order: “Obtained records ‘indicate’ that MM divided her land in four pieces for which she was paid 45.9m/=, 10.6m/=, 8.7m/= and 10.1m/=, respectively, making total payment of more than 75m/=”. Finally we go to the sports page of the Good Citizen (4 March) which has a news item titled: “Youth athletics open competition set for today in Dar”. It is accompanied by a photograph showing two people gruelling it out on a running track and carrying a caption: “Tanzania runners compete in ‘the’ past event”. No. “Tanzania runners compete in ‘a’ past event”! Have a great weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com