China has issued a travel advisory on Epidemic Prevention and Control Requirements for Tanzanians travelling to the Asian economic powerhouse. According to Chinese Embassy in Tanzania’s statement issued on Tuesday, the Embassy said passengers on direct flights from Tanzania to China have to use antigen tests (including self-test with kits) instead of nucleic acid tests effective from March 15, 2023. The advisory states that the move is due to the development of the new crown epidemic situation and the need to facilitate personnel exchanges. However, China has outlined six Epidemic Prevention and Control Guidelines to be followed by passengers travelling from Tanzania to China. 1. Remote testing: Nucleic acid testing within 48 hours before boarding or self-test using an antigen kit. Only those with negative results can go to China. Those with positive results should go to China after turning negative. 2. Customs declaration: After obtaining a negative test result, fill in the “People’s Republic of China Exit/Entry” through the WeChat mini-program “Customs Passenger Fingertip Service”, the Handy Customs APP or the web version (https://htdecl.chinaport.gov.cn) Health Declaration Card” to declare. 3.Airlines do not need to check the negative nucleic acid test certificate and antigen test results before boarding. 4. Epidemic prevention on board: Please insist on wearing a mask during the boarding process, take good personal protection, and reduce the risk of infection. 5. Entry quarantine: After arriving at the port, complete the necessary customs clearance procedures with the customs health declaration code. Customs will conduct sampling tests according to a certain ratio, and test those who have abnormal health declarations or have symptoms such as fever. Those who test positive should be quarantined at home or in residence or seek medical treatment in accordance with the requirements of the notice. If the result is negative, the customs will implement routine quarantine in accordance with the “Frontier Health and Quarantine Law” and other laws and regulations. Those who have a normal health declaration and no abnormality in the routine quarantine at the port can enter the social area. 6. Local epidemic prevention: After entering the country, passengers should strictly abide by the local epidemic prevention and control requirements.