Puma Energy plans to scale up its market share in the country to 20 per cent from 15.2 per cent in the next five years. The Puma’s Managing Director Ms Fatma Abdallah said the firm experienced decent growth in the last ten years in the country and now looking for further expansion. “[We will] tap the opportunities in the market by leveraging on our footprint strength based on global solution and our group strength,” Ms Abdallah, who was just appointed the country director, told ‘Daily News’ over the weekend: “We are [also] looking into leverage in our shareholder [the government of Tanzania] presence by tapping into serving or supplying its entities’ energy need.” The MD said the oil marketing companies (OMC) competition is high and Puma banks are on “quite a decent growth” in the last ten years to fuel the growth further in the next five years. “The competition is high but we are going to ensure we grow and provide satisfactory services to our customers,” Ms Abdallah said. Additionally, to keep the environment clean, the Puma has shifted to power its depots, terminal and retail station using solar energy. So far, ten fuel stations are powered by solar, plus their aviation fuel terminal at Julius Nyerere Airport. Also, Puma is planning to install solar solutions across the airport depot to reduce the carbon footprint of their operations and champion the deployment of clean energy across the country. The Puma, the leading supplier of aviation fuels in the country, set aside 10 million US dollars for the construction of an international standard fuel storage facility at Mangwapani in Zanzibar. Puma serves eight airports in the country and in recent years has invested some 15 million US dollars in ensuring the highest safety and operational standards. Puma operates some 73 retail fuel service stations across the country. Additionally, the firm to attain its 20 per cent market share said will capitalise and focus on global presence to deliver the same service to its customers who operate in Tanzania and were their clients outside the country. Apart from aviation and filling stations, Puma Energy offers Business to Business (B2B) services and a lubricant plant. The B2B business serves mainly major mining companies, contractors of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), manufacturers, transporters and the agriculture industry. Puma Energy, the oldest in the country, 12 years ago acquired 50 stakes in BP Company which was in partnership with the government. The remaining half is owned by the government. Puma is the largest investor in the storage, distribution and operations of aviation fuel services in the country. Also, the company has been running a programme to promote awareness among students of various schools related to road safety education. The programme managed to reduce accidents for pupils, especially in Dar es Salaam. The road safety training programme started in 2013 and by November 2021 reached out to 100 schools and trained over 120,000 children.