GOLF tournament invitations have now turned to Pamoja Tour Kigali which tees off in the Rwandan capital, Kigali in May this year. The 54-hole three-day tour is scheduled to tee off from May 18th to 20th this year at Kigali Resort and Villas Golf Course in Kigali. The event is organised by Smark Africa and is open for ladies’ and men’s golfers from across the continent. Tanzania Ladies Golf Union’s (TLGU) Vice-President Anita Siwale confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that they have received the invitation for the open tournament. “It’s an open event for individual golfers from across Africa that include Tanzania, however, I urge others to join us in the battle,” she said. Siwale added that they have already distributed the invitation to local clubs and members for them to consider as this is an individual open event. “For those whose fans wish to travel and test different courses it is one of the ideal platforms, it is an invitation extended to all African golf unions,” she said. Siwale said a tournament like that also meant to strengthen East Africa and continental integration as it is also an opportunity to test skills and gain experience in the international level showdown. According to organisers, the event opens the opportunity for golf travel and leisure at its best to one of the World class golf courses. Smark Africa is a premier independent multidiscipline Sports and Mass Events Marketing brand powered by a brand exposure agency, USC Media Ltd. The brand is focused on creating properties and verticals within the sports and mass events across the continent with a goal of bringing brands closer to their audiences This is another opportunity for the ladies golfers in the country after they could participate in the South African Women’s Amateur Stroke Play & Match Play Championships, the high-ranked Women’s Golf South Africa (WGSA) event two months ago. They also missed the annual Entebbe Ladies Golf Open 2023 Championship which is the two-day 36-hole battle held on March 3rd and 4th   this year at the par 71 lakeside Entebbe course. The 13th edition of Entebbe Ladies Golf Open is held as part of the celebration of International Women’s Day which happens on 8th March every year. Lack of sponsorship has been cited as one of the reasons behind the golfer’s failure to travel outside the country.