MINISTRY of Education, Science and Technology has expressed its commitment in facilitating research activities and advocating the use of research findings in addressing social economic challenges. This was said yesterday in Dar es Salam by the Director of the Department of Higher Education of the ministry, Dr Kenneth Hosea, on behalf of Minister Prof Adolf Mkenda, when officiating at the launching of the first phase of the Institutional University Cooperation Project at Ardhi University (ARU). The project is funded by the Flemish Interuniversity Council – University Development Cooperation (VLIR – UOS). The ten -year project is aiming at integrating education and training, research, innovation and societal outreach in achieving a more inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable city of Dar es Salaam and its wider region. “The ministry is committed to facilitating and funding research activities and advocate the use of research outputs in addressing social economic challenges and supporting national development agenda as one of the ministry’s mandates,” Dr Hosea said. In particular, he commended the efforts made by ARU in securing the Institutional University Cooperation Programme, while urging all implementing partners to work hard to attain the project’s intended objectives. Regarding the launched programme, he challenged ARU and its partner to look on the possibility of extending the areas of implementation of the project. He noted that sustainable development of both urban and rural areas in Tanzania is one of the key visions of the sixth phase government and it is particularly emphasized in both short-term and long-term national development plans. “I am optimistic that the project will contribute to the government’s efforts of alleviating poverty and inequality among the Tanzania populace and it will enable ARU to contribute effectively in realising the above-mentioned ambitious goals. He urged Ardhi University and all implementing partners to aim at publishing findings from research activities implemented under the project in reputable journals for wider visibility and for benefiting from the funds set aside by the ministry. For his part Ambassador of the Kingdom of Belgium in Tanzania, Mr Peter Huyghebaert said his country will continue to cooperate with the government of Tanzania in various areas for the prosperity of both countries. Earlier, Vice-Chancellor of Ardhi University, Prof Evaristo Liwa said the IUC project at Ardhi University was designed to address the complex challenges faced by rapidly growing African cities, including Dar es Salaam. According to him, Dar es Salaam is expected to attain a megacity status by 2030 with over 10 million people, adding that the increase in population will have profound implications in terms of labour markets, housing, service infrastructures, environmental management and city-wide spatial planning. Prof Liwa underlined that the project will also contribute in implementing the National Five-year Development Plan III (2021/22–2025/2026).