SIMBA have become the first team to seal a place in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) quarters  after a hefty 4-0 win over African Sports at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. Jean Beleke opened the scoreboard in the 39th minute after being released by Pape Sakho as the former sliced a drop ball into an empty net beating African Sports goalie Rajabu Hamisi who had moved out of his territory. Centre-back Kennedy Juma increased the tally in the 46th minute before two substitutions; Mohamed Musa and Jimmyson Mwanuke sealed the business for the Msimbazi Street Reds. Simba looked lethal from the kickoff making several attempts into African Sports territory, but most of them were easily diffused by African Sports defenders. Moses Phiri and Sakho were among Simba players who had better-scoring chances early into the match as pressure was mounting for them to get an early goal to settle their nerves. The victory means Roberto Oliviera’s men are still active in the contest as they want to reclaim the title they missed last season. Today, three venues will explode as six teams battle for the opportunity to cruise into the quarterfinals with holders Young Africans facing Tanzania Prisons at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam from 7:00 pm. Also, Geita Gold host Green Warriors at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita while Singida Big Stars entertain Championship League current leaders JKT Tanzania at Liti Stadium in Singida. Tomorrow, two matches will be played when  Ihefu welcome Pan African at Highland Estates Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya and Mtibwa Sugar take on KMC in an all-Premier League meeting at Manungu Complex in Morogoro. On Sunday,  Azam will take on Mapinduzi at Azam Complex in the city while Kagera Sugar will lock horns with Mbeya City at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera for another all-Premier League clash. ASFC is played in a knockout format. Currently, Yanga are defending the title they clinched last season courtesy of a 4-1 post-match penalty win over Coastal Union after the normal play ended in a dramatic 3-3 draw at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha.