SPIDERS basketball team endured their first defeat as the Dundaswish Rock City Basketball tournament gathers its momentum in Mwanza. Tournament leaders Spiders had the tough going after suffering a 75-71 loss to The Eagles in a thrilling game. Frank Matalange, the tournament’s Chairman told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the match had to be suspended last weekend due to the darkness. Despite the loss, Spiders remained at the helm of the ten-team tournament table. Spiders are leading with 9 points from five matches they have played so far. In another match, Bandari Mwanza climbed to the fourth place with 7 points after recording a 102-93 victory over Young Profile. Bandari have played four matches and won three while conceding a match to stay two points behind the leaders. The second-placed Planet who have played 4 matches, have collected 8 points to remain the only team yet to concede a defeat so far. Planet, also the defending champions, maintained the perfect start at the tournament while the third-placed are Kings with 8 points after playing three victories and conceded two losses from five games. The tournament has attracted ten Mwanza-based teams. The tournament commenced in January this year. Eagles, who handed Spiders their first defeat also jumped to fifth with 7 points after playing four matches. At sixth position are Outsiders who have played four matches with 6 points like the 7th– placed  Young Profile who also have 6 points after playing five matches. Duo CIC and Dunda Sharks who have each collected 5 points with a single win from four played matches, settle at the 8th  and 9th positions respectively while the SAUT team with 5 points are placed at the bottom of the table without a victory in five matches they have played so far. According to Matalange, the league continues today with Eagles locking horns with Outsiders and later there will be the ladies’ game between Tigress and Lioness at the Malimbe courts of St. Augustine University Tanzania (SAUT) in Mwanza. The tournament is sponsored by Dundaswish Investments, Beichee Outfit, Pombeland, Mambo Basketball, MNM Laundry Services, Dazzo Company, and basketball well-wishers.