SIMBA host African Sports in a crucial Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) match at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. It is a decisive match as the winning team steps into the last eight of the competition hence each side would not like to miss out on the great chance of going further in the contest. Initially, the match was slated at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city but following major facelift works happening at the facility, it has been shifted to Uhuru arena. African Sports are currently in 9th place in the Championship League with 21 points from 9 matches after winning five games, drawing 6 and losing 8 encounters respectively. For Simba to reach this far, they outclassed Coastal Union 1-0 while their opponents African Sports defeated New Dundee 4-2 on post-match penalties after playing to a goalless draw. So far, Andrew Simchimba from Ihefu is the top goal scorer after netting 5 goals to his name while Richardson Ngo’ndya (Mbeya City), Clement Mzize (Yanga), Moses Phiri (Simba) and Sadala Lipangile (KMC) each has slotted in 4 goals. With 3 goals are Lucas Daud (Buhaya FC), Jacob Peter (Polisi Katavi), Salum Bosco (Magereza Dar) and Ismail Mgunda (Tanzania Prisons). The last 16 games continue tomorrow with three fixtures as Geita Gold host Green Warriors at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita, Young Africans entertain Tanzania Prisons at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam and Singida Big Stars host JKT Tanzania at Liti Stadium in Lindi. However, in other ASFC last 16 games, Geita Gold host Green Warriors at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita tomorrow with each looking certain to claim a quarterfinals slot. Also, Young Africans take on Tanzania Prisons at Azam Complex in one of the most difficult games of the last 16 likely to attract the attention of many people. On Saturday, three matches will be played as Ihefu welcome Pan African at Highland Estates Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya, Mtibwa Sugar take on KMC in an all Premier League meeting at Manungu Complex in Morogoro and Singida Big Stars go head to head versus JKT Tanzania at Liti Stadium in Singida. On Sunday, two venues explode as Azam take on Mapinduzi at Azam Complex in the city while Kagera Sugar interface Mbeya City at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera for another all-Premier League clash. However, ASFC is played in knockout format meaning that if the outcome after the normal period of play does not separate the two sides, post-match penalties are entertained in order to identify one team which moves on to the next phase. Currently, Yanga are defending the title  they won last year.