PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has continued to win the hearts of Tanzanians and other political stakeholders for her resolve to bring the nation together through her reconciliation initiative built in 4Rs- Reconciliation, Resiliency, Reforms, and Rebuilding. The Head of State, who turns two years at the presidential post next week, has, throughout her leadership, demonstrated her resolve to build a nation whose people live in harmony. “This is the time to stand together and be united. It’s time to bury our differences, promote love among us and look into the future with confidence. “This isn’t the time to start pointing accusing fingers at one other. We should hold hands and move forward in building a new Tanzania that President Magufuli endeavoured to build,” President Samia said in her speech when she took over the reins of the nation two years ago, the words she has all along stood up to-date. Within two years of her leadership President Samia has met leaders of opposition political parties, clerics and other community groups, an initiative that has contributed in bringing the nation together. President Samia’s reconciliation efforts have also attracted an attention of foreign diplomats serving in the country, most of them saying the country was heading into the right direction. For instance, the decision by President Samia to grace the main opposition party’s meeting (Chadema) on Wednesday this week in Kilimanjaro Region was described by US Ambassador to Tanzania Michael Battle as a historic gesture, indicating that the grand move set precedence over what political competition without animosity should resemble. The diplomat congratulated President Samia for choosing reconciliation over division and modelling what political competition without animosity can look like. Since assuming the presidential office in March 2021 President Samia has embraced 4Rs as a necessary tool in addressing the contemporary issues affecting the country’s social, political, and economic systems. It will be recalled that in January this year President Samia allowed political parties to hold public rallies in the country, giving opposition political space to continue selling their agenda and policies to their members. Historically Tanzania has, times without number, demonstrated to the international community that it can hold its affairs, including resolving its internal issues and differences without external actors. Tanzania’s capability of settling political scores amicably has clearly placed the country on its political map. Tanzania is a nation that will be built by Tanzanians themselves. Internal differences that emerge will always be resolved by Tanzanians themselves.  This is the reason behind our support to what President Samia is doing.