VICE -President Dr Philip Mpango has vowed that Tanzania and Cuba will continue upholding their historical bilateral ties founded by the founding fathers of the nations-Julius Nyerere and Fidel Castro. Dr Mpango made the statement on Wednesday evening in Azerbaijan when he met for talks with Cuba’s Vice President  Salvado Valdés Mesa. During the conversation, Dr Mpango stated that the historical relations between the two countries not only helped Tanzania, by then but also supported the liberation of Southern African countries during the struggle for independence. In particular, Dr Mpango said Tanzania and Cuba have continued to have a strong relationship in various development sectors including health, education, industry and trade. He also thanked the country of Cuba for continuing to cooperate with Tanzania in the provision of training, especially by providing sponsorship to students in various fields including medicine, sports as well as exchanging programmes of the medical practitioners. “Now, the relationship between Tanzania and Cuba can be further increased in the agricultural and tourism sectors, the areas that will be beneficial for both countries,” Dr Mpango said. For his part, the Vice President of  Cuba, Mr Salvado Valdés Mesa, said that the existing historical relationship between Tanzania and Cuba confirms the friendship, unity and historical cooperation that has lasted in those countries. He also commended Tanzania for continuing to support Cuba in various issues in the international community as well as its sincere desire to continue cooperating with Cuba. “Cuba will continue to listen and respond to Tanzania’s needs that aim at increasing cooperation between the two countries, especially in the health sector and others,” Cuba’s VP said. In line with this, Mr Mesa said Cuba is ready to provide professional assistance in the production of sugar, medicine andvarious vaccines, including for children and Covid-19 jabs. On the same day, Dr Mpango also met and held talks with the Deputy Prime Minister of Azerbaijan Mr Shahin Mustafayevin Baku City in Azerbaijan. In their talks, they discussed various issues of cooperation in the oil and gas energy sector, education, tourism, trade and investment. The Vice-President is in Azerbaijan to represent President Samia Suluhu Hassan in the Meeting of Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) that was to kick off on Friday.