COLLABORATION between the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) and Marine Services Company Limited (MSCL) proves to be prolific pushing the construction and renovation of marine vessels near completion and assuring a sustainable marine sector. With the sustainable maritime transportation system that requires well-organised administration that cooperates internally and internationally in promoting compliance with global standards, supported by institutions with relevant technical expertise, Tanzania is set to attract more business in the sector. While TPA’s Lake Victoria Ports Manager, Mr Ferdinand Nyathi spoke of the government’s mission, through MSCL, to construct another big ship, Acting MSCL Chief Executive Officer, Engineer Abel Gwanafyo, noted that several main projects are on the right course. Eng Gwanafyo revealed that MV Mwanza Hapa Kazi Tu construction is completed by 82 per cent, reconstruction of MV Umoja – a cargo vessel stands at 69 per cent and is on slipway, while renovation of MV Sangara is at 82 per cent. On papers there is a task of looking into the construction of a wagon ferrying ship, a slipway and two ships – one for passengers and cargo, while the second one would be for cargo only. Elaborating he noted that the MV Mwanza Hapa Kazi Tu when completed, will render services through several Lake Victoria ports, including Mwanza, Kemondo, Bukoba, Musoma and Kisumu in Kenya as well as Portbell and Jinja of Uganda. The largest ship in East Africa that is 92-metre long has a capacity to carry a total of 1,200 passengers, 400 tonnes of cargo, 20 small cars and three heavy goods vehicles. The ship is being constructed by GAS Entec in collaboration with Kangnam Corporation from South Korea as well as Tanzania’s Suma JKT, at a cost of 109.15bn/- until its completion. In his address, Eng Gwanafyo said MSCL has been doing research before deciding to embark on a certain business and market, noting that once it is satisfied with their findings, it will enter the respective market. Elaborating, he encouraged traders, both local and foreign and those with such potential to think of working with MSCL, because as a government’s company, it will be steady and offer fair prices as well as safety to the passengers and their goods. MSCL is a government-owned company that serves passengers and cargo services on Lake Victoria, Lake Tanganyika and Lake Nyasa. Equally, it caters for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Burundi, Malawi and Kenya as neighbouring countries. In their possession, it manages several vessels including the New Victoria Hapa Kazi Tu, New Butiama Hapa Kazi Tu and MV Claris among others. In the future, MSCL plans of increasing the number of the vessels to serve more customers and expand also the ports under their authority. In his analysis, Mr Nyathi added that TPA performs the role of both a landlord and operator majorly in promoting the use, development and management of ports and their hinterlands as well as entering into contracts for the purpose of delegating powers to private operators. 