Geita Gold Mining Limited (GGML) has expressed satisfaction with President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s initiatives to attract new investors and strengthen the mining sector, so ensuring their continuous annual growth. It has also pledged to continue engaging with the government to guarantee that the mining sector’s contribution to the gross national revenue reaches 10 percent by 2025, despite the fact that it currently accounts for 9.2 percent. Simon Shayo, Vice President for AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability for Tanzania and Ghana, said on behalf of mining sector stakeholders in the national conversation about President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s two years in office that recent reports from the Institute for Transparency and Accountability in Mineral Resources, Oil, and Natural Gas (TEITI) show that GGML contributes between 30 and 40 percent of all income or all gold sold in the mining sector in Tanzania. “It is reassuring for us, and here in Geita, we feel that by cooperation with the regional government, our council, and our districts, we can increase our mine’s production, and the mine will always produce more over 500,000 ounces per year,” he said. In addition, he stated that they believe the mining industry can surpass the government’s targets provided investors and small miners continue to improve the investment climate. “We continue to ask the government under the leadership of President Samia to continue creating a good environment for us, we pledge to increase the productivity of our mines, and we at AngloGold Ashanti through our GGML mine believe that we will always be a significant contributor to the success of the mining sector,” he noted. He added that the presence of GGML in Tanzania constitutes not only gold mining and tax returns, but also community investment. “Our main goal is for the community to be better off for having AngloGold Ashanti there. Since we commenced mining in Geita in 2000, we have done our best to achieve this by actively entering into partnerships with our councils for the implementation of our Corporate Social Responsibility program. “Our commitment to the community through the CSR plan that has been jointly signed between GGML and the Geita Councils since 2017 has seen us contribute between 9.2bn/- and 9.5bn/- annually, and this year we believe we will have the opportunity to combine the CSR plans of 2022 and 2023, where we will invest 18.4bn/- in the Geita region alone,” he added. In addition, he urged the government to continue ensuring their efforts to provide services for the community boosts productivity in a bid to help the state in taking additional measures in community service delivery for the mine’s neighbourhood. Martin Shigela, regional commissioner for Geita, stated during the session that the region is the biggest producer of gold ore and that minerals account for sixty percent of the country’s GDP. In the past two years, small-scale miners have produced 13,000 kilograms, which is equivalent to 13.5 tonnes, while large mines such as GGML have produced 35,000 kilograms, which is equivalent to 35 tonnes. “Our contribution over the previous two years indicates that this region’s land is worth 5 trillion, which is equivalent to a quarter of the national budget,” he remarked. During the course of two years, he stated that Geita gold mines have generated more than 400 billion shillings in revenue. “If you look at prior years, even 50% of the budget was not met. Our president has built an atmosphere conducive to investment, mapped and publicised the country worldwide, and investors can come without fear or concern,” he said.