THE National Environment Management Council (NEMC) has contributed 9bn/- in the government’s coffers in the past five years. Speaking in Dodoma on Sunday, NEMC Executive Director Dr Samwel Gwamaka said in the past two years, the council has succeeded in writing documents that led to securing of funds for dealing with the challenges of climate change. “We have collaborated with various councils to write proposals that have helped to get funds to set up infrastructure in areas facing challenges of climate change,” said Dr Gwamaka. He noted that during the Sixth Phase Government, NEMC has also succeeded in establishing nine zones with environmental experts who provide services in collaboration with stakeholders, in districts and city councils. Dr Gwamaka said the goal of establishing such environmental zones is to facilitate finding solutions  to  environmental problems. “During the Sixth Phase leadership, NEMC has successfully established nine zones, making a total of 13 zones across the country,” he said. These are Lake Victoria East Zone, Lake Victoria West Zone, Ilala Zone, Temeke Zone, Central Zone, Zone of Bagamoyo, Morogoro-Rufiji Zone, South Zone, South East Zone, North East Zone, South Highlands Zone, West Zone and North zone. He added that NEMC is in the final stages of establishing other four zones to continue bringing environmental services closer to  communities. Dr Gwamaka also noted that in the management and procedure of environmental studies, the Council has succeeded in coordinating the selection of the Rufiji-Kibiti-Kilwa (RUMAKI) area to be included in the global network of Human and Living Reserves. He said in the period from July 2021 to February 2022, NEMC managed to register 1,702 projects, of which 967 projects are for Environment Impact Assessment and 735 projects for Environmental Inspection. “We have also managed to register about 1,580 guiding and consultancy environmental experts as well as training 450 environmental inspectors for inspecting the environment and advise the big project investors and implementers to help them to conserve the environment,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr Gwamaka said the Council has continued to improve the electronic system where the registration of projects, the issuance of environmental certificates and environmental activities forms are issued online. “We continue to improve and increase services to the community, currently our services are available and easily accessed through the internet.  From July 2021 to February 2022 we have managed to register a total of 1,691 projects through the internet,” he said. Dr Gwamaka also explained that the council has a plan to establish environmental clubs in primary and secondary schools in efforts to continue providing environmental education to promote awareness and build capacity for stakeholders and citizens regarding environmental care. “We will establish environmental clubs in schools and we will nurture them, in these clubs we will train students over the importance of planting trees, collection of waste materials at homes in taking care of the environment,”