TANZANIA’s Ambassador to Germany, Dr Abdallah Possi has expressed the need for Tanzania to take active part in the International Tourism – Borse Berlin (ITB) exhibition and meet world’s reputable stakeholders and promote tourism. “Tanzania’s participation in this exhibition is very important in promoting tourism attractions as well as invesment opportunities in Tanzania… Germany is one of the countries with huge number of visitors to Tanzania,” Dr Possi said. Dr Possi made the remarks recently during the International Tourism – Börse Berlin exhibition held in Berlin, Germany from March 7-9, this year where 180 countries are participating in the exhibition. He said that about 58 government institutions and private sector companies participate in the exhibition and have the opportunity to promote Tanzania’s products and speak to tourism stakeholders from European countries He noted that the government through the embassy of Tanzania in Germany is continuing with the efforts to promote the country’s attractions in Germany and neighboring countries including Poland, Austria and Republic of Czech in order to double the number of tourists in the country “Tanzania has continued to create an enabling environment especially to improve the infrastructure of tourism in various areas of our parks after the launch of the film Tanzania the Royal tour. On his part, Zanzibar Minister for Tourism and Antiquities, Mr Simai Mohammed Said hailed the Tanzania Tourism Board (TTB) and Zanzibar Commission for Tourism (ZCT) for motivating tourism companies from Tanzania to participate in the exhibition. “This initiative has helped to expand the scope of finding new markets from East European countries and the Nordic countries, especially Sweden, Finland, Norway, whose people are within the exhibitions and sell Tanzanian products to them through the various ways we do in the show” he said. Mr Simai noted that the participation of private sector companies from Tanzania in the exhibition is part of supporting the efforts of the President Samia Suluhu Hassan and the President of Zanzibar Dr Hussein Mwinyi through the Royal Tour film to promote our country’s attractions. Director General of the Tanzania Tourism Board Mr Damas Mfugale said that apart from the government institutions that participate in the exhibition, a number of companies from the private sector including hotels, tour operators, tourism service providers, airlines and car rental companies participate in the exhibition. Mr Mfugale added that Tanzania participating in the exhibition is part of the country’s strategy to promote itself on strategic markets where mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar are preparing a joint strategy to promote Tanzania through its products of various tourist attractions in reserves and beach tourism on the part of Zanzibar. The Tanzanian delegation participating in the exhibition includes Tanzania Tourism Board (TTB), Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), National Parks Agency (TANAPA), Tanzania Airlines (ATC) and 58 companies from the private sector.