TANZANIA has been earmarked to host the Toastmasters East African Conference from May 19th to 21st 2023 in Dar es Salaam. Making the revelation recently in the city, Toastmasters International in East Division A Director, John Nzira further said there has been a satisfaction at the way East Africans are responding to organisation. “We are enthralled to see so many individuals and companies showing interest in the Toastmasters, and the Bongo Toastmasters Club, where each club provides a brief presentation of their history and achievements, and we hope to see more corporates from their own clubs in the near future.” Explaining what the Toastmasters means, he said: Toastmasters International is a non-profit educational organisation that teaches public speaking and leadership skills through a worldwide network of clubs. Headquartered in Englewood, Colorado, United States, the organisation’s membership is approximately 358,000 in more than 16,800 clubs in 143 countries. Since 1924, Toastmasters International has helped people from diverse backgrounds to become more confident speakers, communicators, and leaders. The organisation’s districts include 114 in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania, Ethiopia and Burundi. But generally, it is a forum for members to practice public speaking, improve communication and build leadership skills, adding: “With Toastmasters, you can break barriers, not your budget.” He further said that whether one is a tenured manager, student, young professional, someone looking to advance their career, or someone hoping to make an impact in the community, Toastmasters is the most efficient, supportive, enjoyable, and affordable way of gaining great communication skills. Shedding further light, Rotary Club of Dar es Salaam Peninsular President, Nazeer Tajudin said that the Toastmasters International in collaboration with the Tanzania Institute of Managers at the Gymkhana Golf Club have opened a house event, where awareness programme in Tanzania is being run and encourages individuals to join the existing clubs and corporations to form their own clubs. On his part, one of the Toastmasters Dar es Salaam Club members, Rodrique Msechu said, it is a forum for Tanzanian youths to exploit and build their competence especially by becoming articulate and maintaining proper eye contact in public speaking. He added: “It’s time in history that Tanzania is hosting the district club that would be attended by Toastmasters International club members, where winners from East Africa will feature in the world.”