AFTER staying out of the boxing ring for six months, Tanzania professional boxer, Hassan Mwakinyo is now in an intensive drill ahead of his fight against a South African pugilist at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma on April 2nd this year. The bout has been organised by promoter Sophia Mwakagenda who is the managing director of the Lady in Red boxing Promotion. Mwakinyo’s last fight was on September 3rd  last year when he faced English Liam Smith in Liverpool, England where he lost by TKO in the fourth round. Mwakagenda said it is a charity bout that aims to raise funds for targeted  40,000 sanitary pads to be given to students in Iringa, Mbeya, Njombe, and Ruvuma. She said that they are now in negotiation with the South African pugilist and he will be unveiled soon after signing a contract. “It is too early to reveal the boxer but I will reveal him when we seal the deal,” she said. Mwakagenda said they are expecting to stage an exciting fight as there is a big number of prominent boxers who have been lined up in the fight. “We expect to have strong and exciting fights that day. We are looking forward to seeing professional boxing fans, MPs, and various government leaders attend the fight. We also urge sponsors to come forward to support this fight,” she added. On his part, Mwakinyo said he expects to return to ring  with all his prowess adding he is well prepared for the fight. “It’s true that I haven’t fought for a long time and a lot has been said, I am now back with all my strength and this erases all the negative thoughts directed to me. In short, I don’t fight to make some people happy… I do it to develop my talent,” he said. Mwakinyo promised Tanzanians to perform well in the bout going for the first time in Dodoma. At the same time, Mwakinyo congratulated President Samia Suluhu Hassan for her efforts in  developing sports and arts. He said the appointment of Hamisi Mwinjuma as the Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts, and Sports has been very motivating to the stakeholders of sports, arts, and culture since Mwinjuma fits for the post.