YOUNG Africans have picked Azam Complex as their home venue for domestic competitive matches to pave way for the ongoing renovation works at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. This was confirmed on Wednesday by the club’s Media and Communication Manager Ally Kamwe insisting that will begin using the venue during their Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) match against Tanzania Prisons on Friday. “This is an opportunity for our fans residing around Chamazi area to take full advantage of seeing their beloved team playing within their territory,” he said. In another development, Kamwe said they are putting in place necessary measures to ensure that they win all their upcoming two CAF Confederation Cup (CAF CC) home matches so as to generate maximum six points. “The only genuine way for us to cruise into the quarterfinals of the Confederation Cup is by winning the upcoming two home games which will make us stamp 10 points. “We have two successive home games against Real De Bamako and US Monastir both to be played at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium before heading to face TP Mazembe in DR Congo,” he said. Moreover, Kamwe pointed out that the top secret for their convincing success against TP Mazembe was the presence of a good number of passionate fans who came to cheer the team on the day. “The vibe on the day from our 42,000 fans who turned up at the venue was simply extraordinary and to a big extent, it fueled the victory,” he said. Furthermore, he reiterated that this time, they have prepared well to prove wrong those who used to say they do not utilise well the home ground advantage. Yanga face Real Bamako in a reverse confederation cup game at Benjamin Mkapa territory on Wednesday next week seeking to stamp a win after being held to a 1-1 draw in Mali. Pundits have already projected this as a tough match though the hosting side has been given more advantage to do well. The country’s envoys conceded a late goal on the day hence missing out on a chance to collect their first away maximum of three points in the unfolding competition. However, in group D, Tunisian giants US Monastir leads with 7 points from three matches seconded by Yanga with 4 points while TP Mazembe are third on the log with 3 points and sitting at the bottom are Real Bamako with 2 points.