PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has encouraged Tanzanians to fully exploit digital opportunities as the government enhances digital transformation and economy in the country. Meanwhile, the Premier directed all companies to have policies that enhance gender equality while encouraging women to hold high management positions. He made the call on Friday in Dar es Salaam when he officiated at the 5th Annual Leadership Conference organised by the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE). The conference went alongside with the 8th graduation of the 8th cohort of the Female Future Programme run by the ATE.  The conference was themed: ‘ The role of digital transformation in enhancing gender equality in Tanzania’s economy: Effectiveness, challenges and opportunities.’ “Engage women in high positions… reports show that commercial companies that consider good gender balance make achievements,” Mr Majaliwa stated. Mr Majaliwa said to recognise the importance of digital economy, the government has continued to put measures aimed at increasing digital economy inclusion. “But, this also requires involvement of various stakeholders to ensure that women become part of digital transformation,” he stated.  He said the theme of the conference was timely because it has come at time when technology is rapidly changing. “The issue of digital changes is critical even in our country. Women have continued to be part of digital transformation. They use digital platforms for business purposes…the digital transformation has continued making changes in people’s lives,” he noted. The government would continue ensuring that laws and policies are in place to enhance women inclusion in digital economy. The 8th graduation of the Female Future Programme saw 65 women graduating. When welcoming Mr Majaliwa, Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office (Labour, Employment, Youth and Persons with Disabilities), Prof Joyce Ndalichako said in ensuring that there is friendly work environment, her docket has continued encouraging private employers to have better employment contracts. Zanzibar Minister of State in the President’s Office (Finance and Planning), Dr Saada Mkuya, asked  ATE to bring such kind of training down to lower level in schools and colleges in order to raise leadership talents among girls. Ms Jayne Nyimbo, ATE’s Chairperson, said the training has added up efficiency and spirit of daring in institutions that the participants work for. Earlier, ATE’s Chief Executive Officer Suzanne Ndomba-Doran hailed the presence of the Prime Minister at the event as it indicated how the government valued the contribution of the private sector. Ms Ndomba-Doran further elaborated that the ‘Female Future Programme’ was launched in 2016 by President Samia Suluhu Hassan by then when she was serving as Vice-President. The programme intends to build capacity among women for them to hold high leadership positions in their organisations. Since it started, the programme has so far trained 274 women from 79 companies. Graduands in this year’s 8th cohort come from 29 companies. She said the programme has also managed to train 150 female MPs in response to a call made by President Samia. “It is key for the employers to consider gender equality. Statistics show that companies that care about gender equality get achievements,” she said.