NATURAL Resources and Tourism Minister, Mr Mohamed Mchengerwa on Friday inaugurated a modern information centre in Serengeti National Park that is expected to help increasing the number of tourists in the country. The information centre has been constructed at the Seronera,the headquarters of the world-famous park with the support of the Korean International Cooperation Agency (KOICA). Mr Mchengerewa welcomed the multimillion projects saying that his ministry will further enhance its cooperation with South Korea government in areas of conservation and tourism. The Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) Conservation Commissioner (CC) Mr William Mwakilema said the information centre will provide a wider space for tourists to enjoy while in the country’s second largest national park covering 14,763 square kilometres. “More importantly we with the help of this information centre are expecting to increase average number of days spent by tourists in Serengeti from 1.9 day per cent to 3 days “, CC Mwakilema said on party of his report during the colourful event. As a result the tourism facility will both raise number of number of tourists visiting the park as well as boosting the government revenue for the national development. Besides enhancing visitor’s unique experience, the information centre will also help to promote Serengeti and all other national parks across the country, he also said. It will also be enabling tourists to view the great wildebeest migration live among other attractions, according to CC Mwakilema. He added that, already TANAPA had employed experts to run the centre effectively and ensure that it achieves the intended objectives. Minister Mchengerwa commended TANAPA efficiency and asked all key stakeholders to aggressively help in promoting the country’s tourists’ attractions. “It is time to advertise tourism Tanzania. Let me ask everyone to advertise Tanzania. It is time now “, the new minister for natural resources and tourism repeatedly insisted. On his part, the South Korean Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Kim Sun Pyo said the information centre will play a vital role to promote tourism in the world-famous park. “We are very happy to cooperate with TANAPA and the government of Tanzania to promote tourism. Tourism is very important and more will come to Tanzanian, in Serengeti “, Ambassador Kim said. Speaking during the same event, the Permanente Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hassan Abbas said the ministry will make good use of the information centre in order to raise the number of tourists in the country.