AUXILIARY Bishop Methodius Kilaini, the Apostolic Administrator for Bukoba Catholic Diocese has expressed commitment to re-open the Cardinal Rugambwa Memorial University College (CARUMUCO) that was closed down three years ago due to administrative shortfalls. He explained that CARUMUCO started offering various degree programmes, including Education and Administration in 2011 but was closed down in March, 2019 due to administrative shortfalls. “Plans are being finalized to re-open the Cardinal Rugambwa Memorial University College (CARUMUCO) that was closed down three years ago due to administrative shortfalls. We are optimistic the University will be re-opened before the end of this year and we shall cooperate with the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) in offering variuos programs,” he said. Elaborating, he said after CARUMUCO was closed down   arrangements were made leading to the establishment of the Cardinal Rugambwa Memorial College (CARUMCO). He listed   diploma and certificate courses that were currently being offered by the college   including Law, Accountancy, InformationCommunication Technology (ICT), Business Administration, Procurement and Community Development. Retired President Dr Jakaya Kikwete who is also the Chancellor of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), recently tasked Kagera leaders to find suitable land for expansion of buildings for the UDSM branch in the region. He made the remarks recently during his one-day tour in Kagera region to get first-hand information on preparations for establishment of the UDSM branch in Kagera region. Dr Kikwete revealed that the government had allocated about eight million US dollars for the establishment of the branch. Meanwhile, Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Albert Chalamila explained that all necessary logistics had been completed while construction of buildings will be at Itahwa and Kangabusharo villages, a few kilometres from Bukoba town would start in June, this year. He appealed to UDSM management to consider introducing courses suitable for Kagera, including cage fish farming and modern agriculture technology. Equally, he commended Bukoba Rural District’s Itahwa and Kangabusharo villagers for allocating 323 acres free of charge where the college will be constructed for such purpose. Mr Chalamila   explained that the government has allocated buildings at Rwamishenye Council where students will be accommodated while arrangements were being made to construct permanent hostels. “On behalf of all Kagera residents, I hail President DrSamiaSuluhu Hassan for allocating 20bn/- for   the construction of University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) school in the region. This is highly commendable as it will speed people’s development,” he said. He called on Tanzanians in the diaspora who are coming from Kagera to invest back home and promote the region’s investment opportunities in various sectors while encouraging them to make efforts in finding markets for Tanzanian products and raw materials in their countries where they live for the benefit of the majority Tanzanians. For quite a long time   authorities in Kagera region had been struggling to establish a public-owned University. Until recently, there were two University branches in Kagera both owned by the Catholic and Lutheran churches, respectively. They include the Cardinal Rugambwa Memorial University    College (CARUMUCO) and Josiah Kibira University College (JOKUCO). However, the two University Colleges   were temporarily closed pending fulfilling the regulations set down by the Ministry for Education.