FOR the first in the history of amateur boxing, Tanzania will send a team of women pugilists to the Women’s World Boxing Championship to be staged in New Delhi, India from March 15th to -26th this year. The boxing federation of Tanzania (BFT) confirmed on Wednesday saying the Women’s World Boxing Championship in India opens the federation’s calendar of events for this year. The new executive committee of the boxing body said the release of the calendar was among the major issues discussed in the federation’s first meeting in Dar es Salaam this week. Besides releasing the calendar of events, the meeting also discussed the federation’s implementation plans for the year 2023, international studies, the mini-election to fill vacant positions, and hosting the African boxing championship. According to the federation’s President Lukelo Willilo, the next event for this year is the Region 3 meeting which will bring envoys from 14 countries in Dar es Salaam from April 11th to 18th this year. He said the third event in the calendar is the men’s World Boxing Championship to be held in Tashkent, Uzbekistan  from May 1st to 14th this year. “It will be a hectic season as we have set goals that we are sure to  achieve in a bid to develop amateur boxing in this country and build good cooperation with foreign organizations,” he said. In addition to the international level events, BFT also conducted a mini-election whose goal was to fill the vacant posts. “The executive committee  also visited the National Women’s team camp at Africa Human Rights Network (AHRN) at the Mbezi Beach have sponsored the team’s accommodation and the International Gym of Oasis Club,” he said. On his part, BFT Secretary General, Makore Mashaga said the main goal is to be able to take boxing to international levels because right now boxing is a sport that has been given priority like other sports. “We have planned strategies and plans that we will be able to promote and give power to part boxing to a greater extent. And also the mini election we did, has enabled us to find a person who will be able to organize the African level boxing championship which we expect to release its official date before starting its preparations,”  he said.