MOROCCO has expressed its commitment to supporting Tanzanian young ladies and women entrepreneurs as part of continued efforts to promote gender equality and equity for sustainable development. The Ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco to Tanzania Zakaria El Goumiri expressed the commitment recently during the commemoration of the International Women’s Day (IWD) where he also commended President Samia Suluhu Hassan for her positive determinations to lead the country. During the commemoration, the Moroccan Embassy organized a market fair for handicraft products made by Tanzanian women, a move that served as a platform for the entrepreneurs to network and expand their market base. “We have invited around 300 entrepreneurs to exploit this opportunity,” he said, the envoy, calling for collaborative efforts among stakeholders in helping women unlock the available potentials. According to him, collaborative efforts among stakeholders are crucial in   removing berries that hinder young girls and women from realising    their dreams. “Here in Tanzania there is a good example, the county has a female President who is doing a good job in transforming the country,” he said, adding that supporting development of Africa is an ambition that Morocco is implementing. He added that President Samia’s model of leadership which is seen in maintaining peace, security and promoting inclusive economic development must be used to motivate young girls in Tanzania and Africa at large, for them to be able realize all their dreams. Expounding further, he said, Morocco’s foreign policy is to cooperate and support other African countries by sharing experience in the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The envoy also highlighted the good relations, friendship and solidarity that unite Morocco and Tanzania, reiterating the Kingdom’s willingness to strengthen the existing ties and intensify bilateral cooperation in various fields. For their part, some of the exhibitors commended the embassy of the Kingdom of Morocco to Tanzania for providing them with such an opportunity that is beneficial for the improvement of their business. “This is a great opportunity for us as we have been given a platform to showcase our products to members of the diplomatic corps and other  visitors, apart from selling, I have also received some orders for future delivery,” said one of the entrepreneurs,  Jenipher Kisanga.