THE first assignment for the newly appointed Taifa Stars Head Coach Adel Amrouche is to be a double-header Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) Group F qualifiers against Uganda this month. The first leg clash between the two neighbouring nations is slated in Kampala, Uganda on March 24th before the reverse leg tie at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on March 28th. Other members of group F are Algeria and Niger with the former at the summit of the log after generating 6 points from two matches. On Saturday, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) unveiled Amrouche (58) as the new Taifa Stars coach with immediate effect. A statement signed by the federation’s Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo indicated that the Belgian tactician has vast experience in African football. “He has coached clubs and national teams from various parts of the continent and in 2013, he clinched Best East African coach after guiding Harambee Stars of Kenya to the CECAFA Challenge championship. “Before that, he led Burundi into two finals of the same competition,” read part of the statement. It further stated that while at Harambee Stars, he created a record of playing 20 games without a defeat and that some of the national teams he trained before include Equatorial Guinea, Botswana, Libya, and Yemen. “During his tenure at DC Motema Pembe, he succeeded to do well in Champions League and Confederation Cup. He also helped the club to win DR Congo Premier League titles twice including the DR Congo Super Cup. “He also trained RC Kouba and USM Algier which he played before as well as MC Algiers all from Algeria,” said the statement while revealing that he speaks four languages which are Arabic, French, English, and Kiswahili. According to the provided information, Adel holds Uefa Pro Licence and has Masters degree in Ergonomics in Physical Activity, and is a coach instructor for CAF. “Throughout his tenure as Taifa Stars coach, he is going to be paid by the government,” said the statement.