Rutoro CCM Ward Secretary in Muleba District, Kagera Region identified as Respicius Aspro (52) was allegedly shot dead by security guards for reasons yet to be established. Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Albert Chalamila told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that the incident happened on Wednesday morning at around 10.00 a.m. at Block No. 7 owned by an investor, whose name was not disclosed. “He was rushed to the nearby Izimbya hospital but was pronounced dead upon arrival. Police have launched investigations to establish what caused the CCM leader to be killed. In the meantime, people have been urged to be calm and avoid taking the law in their own hands,” he said. Elaborating, he said Rutoro Ward was among areas where several investors were allocated blocks by the government for diary development. He explained that a few months ago, the government formed a special committee, comprising eight ministers to make analysis across the country in areas facing frequent conflicts between livestock keepers and block owners. “While we wait for the final report from the ministers’ committee, I appeal to people to desist from taking the law into their own hands as this could lead to unnecessary disturbances including bloodshed,” he said. He explained that the burial of the late Aspro will take place on tomorrow. Reports from the villages indicate that there has been mistrust between the farmers and livestock keepers, who are believed to work in several blocks owned by investors. Residents at Rutoro Ward, on the other hand, explained that there were about 16 investors owning blocks at Kagoma Ranch since 2006, adding that blocks with disputes include Block Nos 291/3, 291/9, and 291/13. Mr Chalamila noted that increasing incidents on land conflicts in Kagera Region could   be avoided if there was proper understanding on land matters from family level, urging them to adopt a participatory approach to solve land conflicts. “Ensure that you involve family members and other stakeholders in solving land conflicts,” he emphasized.