AIRTEL Tanzania, the smartphone network has promised to continue supporting Tanzanian artists’ content as a way of promoting the country’s culture and economy. That was revealed on Sunday by Airtel Tanzania Director of Communications Beatrice Singano and the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources  Hassan Abbasi during a meeting in Dodoma over the weekend. Also in attendance was The Managing Director of the Tanzania Film Board Dr Kiagho Kilonzo. “Airtel is committed to continue bringing innovative products and services in Tanzania to suit Airtel customers’ needs and lifestyle. For that reason, we understand that artists are part of our customers and that is why Airtel launched the Airtel TV App which allows artists to upload their content to get viewers both local and international,” he said. We understand government efforts in promoting our natural resources and culture through tourism. It is for that reason; Airtel has decided to introduce Airtel TV to provide a platform for our domestic artists. Our aim is to continue supporting our local talents to grow and adopt digital as one way of promoting their content, said Singano adding that Airtel will continue giving the industry a platform to showcase their talent through smartphones. “It is a pleasure that our modern platform will provide videos on demand with the number expected to increase. We will continue working with the Tanzania Film Board, Basata, and COSOTA to ensure our local content and artists get the expected return of investment to continue making sure that the entertainment industry remains a key source of employment,” said Singano. Speaking during the meeting, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources, Hassan Abbas commended Airtel for supporting local artists. Abbas said it is a testimony that the entertainment industry in the country and particularly the movie industry is growing.  “I take this opportunity to congratulate Airtel for their commitment in supporting our local talents and especially through Airtel TV, as now our artists will have a digitised platform to showcase their work and hence not only increase the reach of their work but also their income,” said  Abbasi. I call upon our artists across the country to take advantage of this opportunity and provide more local content which has gained popularity with the viewers in Tanzania. “The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism will make it possible for our artists to use our tourism attraction sites when preparing content as a way of promoting tourism in Tanzania. We are all aware of the efforts put by President Samia Suluhu Hassan  in promoting our tourism sector through the royal tour. Now with Airtel coming to support our artists, we are sure that our entertainment industry is going to the next level,” he said. I am certain the future is brighter for our artists and the industry with Airtel introducing Airtel TV through smartphones. “The advancement in technology has brought about new ways of creating media content and platforms like mobile services are now able to broadcast TV,” Abbasi said. He added, “The Tanzania Film Board commends Airtel and the value that it will bring to the entertainment industry. In this regard, we continue supporting this effort and will work diligently with Airtel to monitor the uploads and ensure that the contents safeguard our cultural values.”