THE National Sports Council expects to award the best sportsmen and women who excelled jp athletes in the country for both females and males aiming at motivating youth to engage more in the sector. This was revealed by the NSC chairman Leodegar Tenga in Dar es Salaam on Friday. During the occasion, he noted that the award will be held at Mlimani City next Friday whereby it will involve various sports stakeholders in the country. The award event consists of nine members of the committee who have extensive experience with sports issues as well as being able to organize various sports events. The members of the committee are Mkumbukwa Mtambo as the chairman, Leonard Thadeo who is the vice chairman, and Neema Msitha who is the Secretary of the committee. Jonas Tiboroha, Nasra Mohamed, Christina Koroso, Boniface Wambura, Juma Ikangaa, and Omar Omar are the members of the committee. While addressing this, he said that the awards will be provided for the best sportsmen and sportswomen, and another category will be given to male and female athletes with disabilities. Others who will be awarded are the best teams that performed well in international competitions as well as the best athletes for each sports club for those who have performed well in international competitions. He added that three athletes who are most competent will be chosen from all the sports associations and from there the best winner for both females and males will be picked. In ensuring that the award process is done with transparency, professionalism and great attention, he added that all sports associations and federations will collaborate with the committee to pick the best athletes who will be awarded a few days to go. He also urged the media outlets to use take advantage of the opportunity, by spreading education on the importance for youth to engage more in sports that will make them participate in various competitions. On his part, the Committee’s Chairman Mkumbukwa has motivated other young athletes who will not be awarded to put in enough effort so that they also be awarded in the next phase. Meanwhile, reports Cosmas Mlekani that Elia Clement earned  Tanzania long jump gold in the East and Central African U-18 and U-20 Athletic Championship at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Clement won the only gold after clearing 6.29m beating tough contenders from Kenya, Uganda, Zanzibar, Sudan Kusini and Somalia. Speaking after the feat, Clement said he was delighted with the victory as Tanzania rarely excels in the field events. “To win gold medal in the regional level championship is a big honour and I work hard to ensure I represent my country in the global level competition in near furure,” he said. Tanzania also hauled silver and bronze medals in the competition that climaxes at the same venue today. Salima Charles and Elizaberth Ilanda also excelled in the 800m race after finishing second and third respectively. Tanzania won the second bronze  through Damian Christian who finished third in men’s 800m race. Tanzania claimed its third bronze in women’s 100×4 relay after the team finished third overall. Kenya, the world’s athletics maestro won two gold medals in both men’s 800m and women’s 800m races. Kenyan Dorcas Chepkemri won gold in 800m for women after clocking  02:09:35. Rwanda, Ethiopia,  Sudan and Djibout failed to send participants in this year’s competition.