SIX teams battle for maximum points as the 25th round of the Premier League continues to rage on in three different venues across the country today. The epic match sees holders Young Africans taking on Geita Gold at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam where the former has temporarily shifted to pave way for renovation works at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. A victory to Yanga will hand them 65 points at the top of the table from 24 matches thereby cementing their chances to retain the championship for the second time in a row. On the other hand, a win will enable Geita Gold to stamp 37 points and consolidate their current fifth place on the log as they eye to finish the campaign among the best four sides of the season. In a  pre-match briefing yesterday in the city, Yanga Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze said they are aware of the importance of the match hence they will play a strategic game to grab maximum points. “We are coming straight from our CAF Confederation Cup fixture against Real Bamako meaning that some of our players have mental and physical fatigue. “As such, our target is to play a strategic game so that regardless of what happens, we should be able to accumulate three points though I know that it is not going to be easy,” he said. Kaze then conceded that facing Geita Gold has never been an easy match and they expect to see such competitiveness in today’s encounter. On his part, Geita Gold Assistant Coach Mathias Wandiba highlighted that his side is also well prepared to go head to head against what he said a team with quality players. “They are a good team with experienced players and are doing well in the confederation cup but that does not scare us because our plan is to generate a win and seize all points from them,” Wandiba said. Elsewhere today, Coastal Union host  Singida Big Stars at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga for yet another thrilling fixture set to grab the attention of many football fans across the country. However, a late kickoff match sees Dodoma Jiji facing Polisi Tanzania at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma with the visitors eager to stamp a triumph and escape the relegation jaws.