TANZANIAN veteran coach, Jamhuri Kihwelu has advised newly- appointed Taifa Stars coach Adel Amrouche to be given enough time  saying he needs to understand well his players and impart his playing philosophy. The Belgian tactician (58) was unveiled over the weekend through a statement released  by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and according to the federation’s Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo, he has secured a three-year deal. “The good thing is that finally, we have a new coach who has been trusted to take charge of our senior team, I congratulate TFF for making this possible. “But, he needs to be given enough time so that he can fully understand our players and at the same time allow him to instill his philosophy to them because he is going to start from scratch,” he said. He added that having a good coach alone is not enough but also, players should have the commitment to work hard whenever given the opportunity to put on the national team jersey. Moreover, Jamhuri noted that since most Taifa Stars players trade in the Premier League, it will be easy for them to grasp his new playing tactics fast. The first assignment for Amrouche will be a double-header Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) group F qualifiers against Uganda this month with the first leg clash slated in Kampala, Uganda on March 24th before the reverse leg tie at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on March 28th. Other members of group F are Algeria and Niger with the former at the summit of the log after generating 6 points from two played matches. According to the information declared by TFF, Adel holds Uefa Pro Licence and has Masters degree in Ergonomics in Physical Activity and he is a coach instructor for CAF. It further elaborated that he speaks four languages which are Arabic, French, English, and Kiswahili while insisting that throughout his tenure as Taifa Stars trainer, he is going to be paid by the government. Again, the information stated that while at Harambee Stars, he created a record of playing 20 games without tasting defeat and that some of the national teams he trained before include Equatorial Guinea, Botswana, Libya and Yemen. “During his tenure at DC Motema Pembe, he did well in CAF Champions League and the Confederation Cup. He also helped the club to win DR Congo Premier League titles twice including the DR Congo Super Cup,” reads part of the statement.