SIMBA Assistant Coach Juma Mgunda said they are still in the championship race of the season while Mtibwa Sugar skipper Issa Rashid bemoaned lack of concentration for their big defeat. The Msimbazi Street Reds stamped a comfortable 3-0 win at Manungu Complex Stadium in Morogoro over the weekend to continue clearing their path towards the championship as the season heads to its climax. They have carved 57 points from 24 matches and remain plastered at the second place of the log whereas Mtibwa Sugar have accumulated 29 points after 25 encounters. “The good thing is that we are still in the race for the championship, this win guarantees us that it is not over until it is over,” said Mgunda after the match. He added the gained three points are very important to them because they keep on ascending to the top of the ladder and that every league game they engage is crucial to them. “Our top target now is to continue winning all the remaining matches and at the same time, scoring more goals just like what we have done today (Saturday),” he said. Moreover, he pledged to sort out all the flaws showcased by his side during the match in order to be much better in their upcoming fixtures in all competitions. On his part, Mtibwa Sugar captain Rashid insisted that they lacked concentration in the second half hence giving Simba an opportunity to capitalise from it. “All the three goals were netted in the first half because we failed to concentrate and this enabled them to punish us. In the second half, we improved but we could not utilise well scoring chances we created. “A big lesson learnt from this game is that we have to concentrate from the first whistle to the last one and this is what football is all about… failure to focus, you give room to be punished,” he said. Meanwhile, in other league results on Saturday, Tanzania Prisons laboured to beat Namungo 3-2 at Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi as the visitors cherished maximum points. It was an important victory for Prisons who are currently in the relegation playoff as they now have 25 points from 25 games hence much work needs to be done for them in their remaining five fixtures.