“IF your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader. Again the greatness of a leader is measured by the achievements of the led, not people who lament against him/her that their woes are not being addressed,” this is what the Vice-President Dr Philip Mpango once said while addressing District, Town, Municipal and City Council Directors in Dodoma. In line with this, recently President Samia Suluhu reshuffled the cabinet by appointing and transferring some Permanent Secretaries and their Deputies, all in the name of delivery and serving Tanzanians. Clearly, her school of thought was to the point that as public leaders, they are expected to address problems, which cause unnecessary disputes (not to become part of the problems) and see into that government projects through the ministries are implemented to the expectations of the general public. To the grassroots level they are supposed to set pace and lead by example to the public to an extent that any slight misunderstanding within the ministries are fast enough addressed and should not escalate to show a government in a government (read factions), which is not healthy for any nation. Whichever way one might look at it, they are the government’s eyes and should be ready to be answerable to the public and not turn such offices to square their squabbles, torture, embezzle and misuse any public fund for self-interest(s). This should be reemphasized also to the Regional Commissioners (RCs) and Regional Administrative Secretaries (RAS) in the hierarchy of leaders to note that that they play a pivotal role in the country’s governance. They are simply considered to be the representatives of the president in their areas. They are responsible for addressing common problems ranging from solving disputes be it on land, squabbles in public offices to preaching peace and patriotism. It is good that President Samia has not minced words and reminded them that they are public servants and should settle their self-interests professionally and maturely, and not turn the offices to tarnish the name of the government. Since leadership means showing the way, we expect RCs and other public leaders right to the grassroots to serve the public in their areas with diligence, because the whole country (read world, because of modern social media) is watching what they are doing. In that sense, we don’t expect to see any minister, PS, regional commissioner, regional administrative secretary, district commissioner, or police head becoming the source of conflicts, instead we want to see them spearheading the country’s development agenda.