NMB Bank has handed over return tickets to seven lucky winners and their companions for the just concluded ‘MastaBata Kote Kote’, campaign grand finale who are set to embark on a four day fully paid trip to Dubai. Speaking during the handover ceremony held in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, NMB Bank Business Banking Head, Mr Philbert Casmir, said the campaign sought to sensitise the public to switch from traditional means of payment to digital payment options, like Masterpass QR and POS. “The digital payment systems option allows clients to transact more conveniently, quickly and securely. In line with our closer to you slogan, we are today handing over fully paid tickets to our customers to go and enjoy an experience of a lifetime in Dubai,” he said. Mr Casmir revealed that the bank has partnered with Mastercard, adding that the winners will continue to enjoy seamless banking services while in Dubai. He said the winners will among other things enjoy a desert safari, a visit to the Dubai Aquarium and a visit to the famous Burj Khalifa skyscrapers as well. “Customers should continue using NMB Mastercards to make purchases as we still have many campaigns ongoing like the Fri-yay where they can get discounts of up to 15 per cent on selected items,” he said. One of the winners Upendo Msanjila (49), a Dar es Salaam resident could not hide her excitement during the event saying, “Am feeling so excited and nervous at the same time, as this is my first trip to Dubai. I did not sleep so I cannot wait to enjoy the trip to the fullest.” Mr John Rudisha, another winner, said during the event that he had done so many transactions during the three months draw but surprisingly he did not win anything during the weekly and monthly raffles where other customers won cash prizes. “This is my first raffle win in life. I did not win the weekly or monthly prizes but God had something good and better for me. Am so excited that I am among the customers who will be flying to Dubai to have an experience of a lifetime,” he said.