Vodacom Tanzania will tomorrow unveil the final three innovative tech start-ups who have emerged winners of its Vodacom Digital Accelerator (VDA) programme season II following the completion of the programme which was being implemented in collaboration with Smart Lab. The three winners will be determined after pitching in front of a panel of Judges well versed in the areas of Tech, Entrepreneurship, investments and legal in an event that will take place in Dar es Salaam. Vodacom Tanzania Director of Digital Services, Nguvu Kamando said in Dar es Salaam yesterday, “We are excited to have reached this stage of the VDA programme where we get to see how it has accelerated Tanzanian innovative tech start-ups, their pitching presentations will determine the final three winners, who will receive over 200m/- value-based support and potential of follow on investments. I urge Investors and stakeholders in the tech and innovation ecosystem to register on our digital platforms to participate virtually in the demo presentation taking place tomorrow,” Designed for early-stage post revenue innovative start-ups, season II of the Vodacom Digital Accelerator programme commenced in April last year and opened applications to all Tanzanian tech startups with creative solutions with the potential to scale. From hundreds of applications received, 12 start-ups were selected to join the programme and entered the acceleration phase of the programme where they got to receive additional assistance in developing their marketing strategies, technical aspects and connections with potential investors and partners. The 12 start-ups are from different sectors including fintech, health, e-commerce, education, agriculture, and cybersecurity industries. The public is also invited to join in, listen to the pitch and vote for the top startups through a link that will be shared on the company’s social media pages. The tech startups that are in the run for the final prize include Shule Yetu Innovations, Smart Darasa, Lango Academy and Vijana Tech, under Edutech. Hack it Consultancy representing the cyber security space. Seto, Twenzao, Get Value, and Spidi Africa under the e-Commerce banner. Others are Medpack representing Health tech and finally, Bizy Tech and Bizzy Pay on the Fintech side.