Women Discrimination has deepen its roots in the hearts of our societies to the extent some people call it a normal tradition! But discriminating women in any way can not be a normal tradition; it can’t even deserve to be called ‘a tradition’. This intolerable behaviour is of different types. This list has some of them. Home Violence.
 Rape.
 Female Genital Mutilation.
 Sex Corruption.
 The Denial of Right to Education.
 The Denial of Right to inherit/own Property. HOME VIOLENCE
Many cases concerning home violence have been reported from various places in Tanzania. Women being the most affected people have suffered incapacitation and or death. Some violent husbands heartlessly beat their wives like the music band! In many instances, home violence has also led to marriage or family break up, the increase of street children, and others. It is now a duty for everyone to fight against women discrimination. Let us report the incidences of this nature to the Social Welfare Police. RAPE
Mostly, women are victims of rape; they are forced to sex with men without their free and comfortable consent. This calamity is barbaric and shameful. It has led to sexual transmitted diseases, psychological effects to the victims, death, and others. It is therefore a duty for everyone to curse this inhuman behaviour. FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION
Girls are forced to undergo female genital mutilation in various societies including Kuria, Masai, Iraq, Chaga, and others. This deprives girls their right to privacy and psychological well being. Now, it is the time to eradicate female genital mutilation. SEX CORRUPTION
This normally happens in Colleges, Universities, or Schools when lecturers/teachers demand sex in exchange of excellent marks; it also happens in some offices when women apply for various jobs. We, the society should fight this to its demise. THE DENIAL OF  RIGHT TO EDUCATION
Early marriages and forced marriages lock the access to education for many girls. This behaviour paves a way to the increase of illiteracy to many women. THE DENIAL OF RIGHT TO INHERIT/OWN PROPERTY
Customs of some patrilineal societies prohibit women to inherit property from their parents or late husbands. Some societies prohibit women to own properties even when a woman buys her own property, her husband deprives her the ownership. Instead of depriving women’s properties, men should help their women or daughters to get capital for launching business projects so as to improve their financial independence. Keeping quiet when women discrimination happens will never solve the problem; we must fight it to its quickest demise. Spreading awareness concerning women discrimination should be a priority for everyone of us. Wherever you witness women discrimination, just report it to the Social Welfare Police. Let all of us know that women have the right to privacy, education, inheritance/ownership of property, and much more. Now, it is the time to come together and continue with the fight against all the aforesaid monsters. We can win. Happy Women’s day to all women across Tanzania.