PRIME Minister Kasim Majaliwa has ordered the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports to swiftly renovate Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, so as to enable it to meet the standards required by the Confederation of African Football (CAF). The Premier issued the order on Wednesday following his visit to assess the venues’ condition amid, a recent report that CAF had demanded the stadium to be renovated. “For as long as CAF issued a warning and given us the time to refurbish our stadium, we must start the work to adhere to their demands. I have come here to inform you that you should not allow the stadium for any use as it has now been closed to pave the way for the renovation,” he said. Majaliwa said since CAF has revealed the names of the companies that can do renovation work, the ministry should announce tender even in a single source system in order for the work to start. “The work must start immediately so that if CAF officials come and see us carry on with the work then they will allow us to use the stadium if our clubs qualify for the upper stage. This stadium is our pride as there are neighbouring countries that have decided to play their games in this arena, “said the PM. In another development, the Premier Minister has ordered the sports ministry to make a review on a number of matches to be staged at the stadium in a bid to protect it. “Ministry, Tanzania Football Federation(TFF) and Tanzania Premier League Board(TPLB) should review on a number of matches that are supposed to be staged at Benjamini Mkapa Stadium. We have other arenas such as Uhuru, Azam Complex which can be used for matches to relieve and protect our modern stadia. You can pick the matches that attract big numbers of fans to the ultra-modern stadium,” he said. He also ordered the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sport to work together with municipals to allocate lands that can be developed for playing grounds. On his part, the Minister of Culture, Arts and Sports Pindi Chana has mentioned the football matches in which Benjamin Mkapa Stadium can be used as Simba against Vipers, Simba vs Horoya, Yanga against Real Bamako and Yanga against Tunisia’s Monastir as well as all matches that will involve Taifa Stars.