The Rufiji Basin Water Board (RBWB) has spent 1.5bn/ to procure machinery to restore rivers that have deviated from their natural positions, thus cutting down costs on hiring the machines. Speaking to journalists recently, the RBWB Great Ruaha Catchment Officer, Eng Abisai Chilunda said the machinery used in all the valleys in the country due to the board being the first to own the plants. Mr Chilunda said that previously they were renting the machinery at a high cost for various activities of conservation and maintenance of water sources. “Before we were used to renting the plant at 1m/- per day once we had a call to restore rivers in various conservation and maintenance activities of water sources,” said Eng Chilunda. He said the arrival of the machines has become less expensive because they do the intended work and as well as rent to others so they earn money. Eng Chilunda said the machinery has started working since September, last year to bring back rivers that have deviated from their natural position starting with the Choko River which has been brought back hardly 10 kilometres. In addition, RBWB managed to cover canals and demolish some illegal infrastructure that people have built and water theft in the Rufiji River valley. The RBWB Director, Mr Florence Mahay said through the Resilient Natural Resource Management for Tourism and Growth (REGROW) project board was able to buy two machines which are excavator and a bulldozer. “Through REGROW Project also bought 16 motorcycles for water user communities to improve the management of water sources and water use,” said Mr Mahay. He said the board has a big role to play in filling water in the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP) and said the increased use of water from the small rivers or damaged water sources reduces the ability of the river to flow water to JNHPP, so they called upon to all citizen to protect the environment as well as water sources. Rufiji Water Basin is the largest in the country with 183,791 km2 which is 20 per cent of the country.