RELEGATION haunted Ruvu Shooting defeated Mbeya City 2-1 at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya and climbed up one position. Ruvu Shooting were bottom-placed with 17 points prior to the yesterday’s vital win. They are now placed 15th with 20 points  as Polisi Tanzania now crawl at the bottom of the table with 19 points. Ruvu Shooting netted their goals through Valentino Mashaka and Abrahaman Abrahaman while Sixtus Sabilo scored Mbeya City’s consolation goal. Meanwhile, Simba have a chance to reduce the current 8-point Premier League gap against leaders Young Africans to 5-point if they manage to defeat Mtibwa Sugar at Manungu Complex in Morogoro today. The duo battle for maximum points as the season slowly nears its finishing line and at this juncture, winning is what each team search for in order to stay comfortable at the league table. After Champions League 1-0 success over Vipers, it is now time for the Reds to direct their arsenals to the premier league knowing in advance that they are still key title contenders of the campaign. In a pre-match briefing yesterday, Simba coach Roberto Oliveira insisted that his charges are well prepared for today’s engagement saying they target to grab maximum points. “Of course, it is my objective to win the match and take all three points…that is very important. I am hopeful that my players will do a good job so that in the end, we should produce positive results,” he said. He then urged them to fully focus on the game and forget about the previous champions league success over Vipers saying it is now time for the premier league business. On his part, Mtibwa Sugar Assistant Coach Awadhi Juma also said they are fully prepared for the big match saying they are aware that the encounter will be difficult. “We have advantage of playing at home and we need to use it well. Simba are a big team with quality players and we respect them a lot but we are going to do our part,” he said. Moreover, Awadhi remarked that basing on their current standings on the table, they need to win most of their upcoming league fixtures so as to be comfortably placed on the log. Elsewhere today, Namungo host Tanzania Prisons at Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi for another explosive premier league’s 25th round clash. This is an opportunity for the Mbeya based side to respond back after undergoing through a tough period no wonder they are not yet safe from the relegation zone.