TANZANIA and Namibia have signed three Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) on political and diplomatic consultations, cooperation, security matters as well as energy resources. The MoUs were signed on Saturday following the deliberations of the three-day third session of the Namibia-Tanzania Joint Commission on Cooperation (JCC) in Windhoek, Namibia. In her speech, Tanzania’s Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Stergomena Tax, said that the successful implementation of the three agreements would contribute to the socio-economic development of the two countries and have a positive impact on the standard of living of their citizens. However, Dr Tax expressed concern on the slow implementation of existing agreements. Accordingly, she called for redoubling of efforts to ensure speedy implementation in order to strengthen historical bonds, increase trade links, and expand economic and political cooperation. “In order to enhance our relations, we must take our decisions seriously and implement the issues that have been agreed upon. Let us also eliminate the bureaucracy that prevents us from reaching our goals, and in the process, save the lives of our people,” she noted. In addition, she called upon senior officials to ensure that the 18 pending MoUs were finalised. The JCC meeting took place from 8 to 10 March 2023, with Dr Tax leading the Tanzanian delegation. Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah, Namibia’s Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, believes it is high time the two countries elevated their economic and political ties in order to realise the African vision of clean water, free education, and quality health care. Ms Nandi-Ndaitwah equally called for commitment from both sides for effective implementation of their existing bilateral agreements through careful monitoring. “For one of them, we have agreed that communication from both teams on the implementation process should occur every six months, in addition to the mid-term review, which is required to take place before the 4th JCC next year,” she said. She added: “All of the authorities in attendance, you are the implementers, and we kindly ask that you understand that we need feedback from your ministries when we contact them in order to offer the services our people desire.” The 4th session of the Namibia-Tanzania Joint Commission of Cooperation will take place in Tanzania in 2025. At the sidelines of the meeting, Tanzania officially opened its High Commission offices at Khomas Highland Plateau Area in Windhoek, Namibia to foster bilateral relations to deepen economic ties. On February 20, 2020, the Tanzanian diplomatic office in Namibia officially started carrying out its diplomatic responsibilities, and Dr Modestus Kipilimba was appointed as the country’s first High Commissioner to represent Tanzania. The embassy has also opened a library with books and magazines in Kiswahili for people who are interested in learning the language to visit and study themselves at this time when the governments of Tanzania and Namibia are negotiating for the Kiswahili language to be included in the language of choice in Namibian schools. In 2021, during the JCC held in Tanzania, the two countries signed MoUs spelling out how they will cooperate in tourism, mining, manufacturing/industries and trade – as well as in the empowerment of youths.