THE fact that women are the backbone of the family setting is vital in making sure that their health status also becomes stable by having regular health checkups. This was said on Wednesday by the ruling party during celebrations to mark the International Women’s Day at the Karimjee grounds in Dar es Salaam. She said that by having regular health checkups, it will ensure that economic activities of women is not disrupted due to effects of diseases, including Non Communicable Diseases,because it will empower them to detect ailments early and take the necessary preventative action in good time. Ms Kimbisa said that most women in Tanzania have no habit of checking their health status- that is why through the ‘Women Bewell Initiative’ they organized a free health checkup so that as the women celebrate their day, they can also have a free checkup. “The free checkup through Women Bewell Initiative is in efforts to eliminate the communicable and non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in women, especially the low-income population engaged in the food supply sector, in support of SDGs. The main source of income for most women in most parts of the country is through the provision of food services, so this entails the preparation and supply of food to the general public,” she said. She said that because being engaged in such a critical sector is delicate, it was with great urgency that she created an annual program that will give these women an opportunity to access free check-ups, counselling and more important raising awareness of the significance of their overall health. She further said that the aim of the free health checkup is to also reduce the severity of any health condition by identifying the problem and offering effective treatment, and at the same time to increase choice by identifying conditions or risk factors at an early stage in a life-course when more options are available. Speaking at the same event, the Dar es Salaam Chama cha Mapinduzi Chairman, Abbas Mtemvu who was the guest of honor urged women to turn up in large numbers at the Karimjee grounds so that they can check their health status free of charge. She thanked MsKimbisa for organizing the event, saying that it supports the government’s efforts in the health sector. He urged women in Dar es Salaam to have unity and become one thing, because by doing so they will be able to come together and formulate development strategies which will in turn boost their income.