MWANZA Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr Wilbroad Mutafungwa has urged business person to refrain from buying any stolen goods from the ongoing major strategic projects in the country, including Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and the Kigongo-Busisi Bridge. The RPC   said that businessmen have been buying stolen items such as diesel and cement from the projects in which the government has invested a lot of money. “This is sabotage of the projects because the incidents delay the implementation of the crucial projects,” he said. Mr Mutafungwa made the call yesterday during a meeting held in Mwanza, involving regional police force officers and business people to discuss various issues related to security, to ensure smooth business operations in the region. He said the Police will not tolerate any anyone who will be involved in sabotage of any government project, warning traders to avoid shortcut for the  sake of maximizing  profit  by buying stolen goods, instead they should cooperate with the force in case they come across with goods stolen from the government projects. “We must demonstrate patriotism for development of our country; overall the major strategic projects currently under implementation are for our benefits,” the RPC said. He noted that so far all strategic projects in Mwanza region are in close the Police Force supervision to prevent any form of sabotage, adding that the Force is undertaking both day and night operations to arrest all those involved in sabotaging the projects. RPC Mutafungwa noted that smart partnership between business people and the Police Force by sharing information and taking right action on spotting crime among others, is crucial in promoting business growth as well as economic growth. Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (TCCIA) Regional Chairman, Mr Chacha Kenene commended the Police Force daily routine operations to make Mwanza region a safe place, as it is the second business hub after Dar es Salaam region. He pledged that the TCCIA will continue enhancing investment in the region in areas such as fisheries, agriculture and mining among others, with high-based industrial technology for sustainable development being the first priority. Recently, the Police Force in Mwanza region rescued 850 litres of stolen diesel linked to the ongoing construction of the SGR Lot Five from Mwanza to Isaka, whereby three people were alleged to commit the crime.