KILIMANJARO Regional Commissioner (RC) Nurdin Babu has said President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan and her predecessors deserve big compliments due to the great efforts they have made in conserving natural resources and promoting the tourism sector in the country. Mr Babu made the remarks recently during the launch of tree planting campaign in the areas surrounding Mount Kilimanjaro at Samanga Village, Rombo District, in Kilimanjaro Region. The occasion was part of the events organised to mark the 50th anniversary since the establishment of the Kilimanjaro National Park (KINAPA). “The Father of the Nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere had a great vision  on  conservation of our resources and the idea to improve the tourism sector; his vision contributed to the establishment of the Kilimanjaro National Park (KINAPA) 50 years ago”, he said. He added:  “Mount Kilimanjaro is currently one of the biggest sources of revenue through the tourism sector and is also one of the attractions that bring many tourists here in the country and in Africa in general every year, as far as the tourism sector is concerned.” The RC further said that the successors of Mwalimu Nyerere have continued the good work he started and that even when President Samia assumed presidential roles two years ago, she personally participated in the production of the Royal Tour Tanzania film which is now contributing significantly to the increase of tourists in the country. Mr Babu congratulated the management of KINAPA for the great contribution the park has made since its establishment to the health, education and the well-being of many residents. RC Babu commended residents living in the areas surrounding the park for the cooperation they have been according to the management of KINAPA while carrying out their daily duties. Mr Babu praised the management of KINAPA for coming up with the idea of planting trees as part of the activities to mark a golden jubilee since the establishment of the institution, which he said should be emulated by others. Speaking during the event, KINAPA Chief Park Warden Mr Imani Kikoti said the institution had projected to plant 300,000 trees as part of the 50th anniversary celebrations since the establishment of KINAPA in March, 1973. “In addition to the tree planting event, there will  be  also other activities which include a symposium aimed at  providing education on the importance of planting trees, taking care of them and preserving the environment which will involve environmental stakeholders, conservationists and various tourism stakeholders”, he said. Commenting on the challenges facing KINAPA Mr Kikoti said it includes unscrupulous people invading areas around the park, causing damage which he said threatens the future of KINAPA. “The destruction includes fires that have been a major challenge for the Kilimanjaro National Park since its establishment due to the fact that they  destroy the environment of the park and ecosystem   in the conserved areas.These living creatures are also part of the attractions for visitors who come to climb Mount Kilimanjaro,” he said.