ALL is set as Dar es Salaam Basketball Association’s regional basketball readies for a tip-off on April 1st this year. This year’s league will see 16 men’s teams and 12 women’s race for the league’s top titles. The men’s teams have increased from 15 last year while women’s teams have also increased from seven teams last year. Haleluya Kavalambi, the DB’s Technical and Competitions Director said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the league will involve the teams that have qualified to play in the regional for 2023 men and women and meet the all-registration criteria. “Among the qualification or criteria to participate in the league is to complete the registration from National Sports Council (NSC) and pay all the fees that are arranged on time without delay,” he said. Kavalambi mentioned the men’s teams to participate in the league as defending champions Pazi, ABC, Oilers, Chui, Dar City, Polisi, Don Bosco Oysterbay, Savio, JKT, UDSM Outsiders, Jogoo, Ukonga Kings, Mchenga, Ukonga Warriors, Mgulani JKT and Vijana City Bulls. The women’s teams are Don Bosco Lioness, JKT Stars, Jeshi Stars, Kurasini Divas, Mchenga Queens, Pazi Queens, Ukonga Queens, City Queens, UDSM Queens, Police Stars and Oilers Princesses. “The model that will be used for the year 2023 will be of two rounds (home & away basis), after the end of the first round there will be a one-week period of mini window registration for teams that did not reach the required number of players,” he said. He explained that those who will be allowed to be registered through the small window are players who have not played or been registered with any team for the 2023 Dar season and other regions including Zanzibar. After the round stage, he said the top eight (8) teams would qualify for the quarter-final stage (playoff stage). The quarter-final stage will be played with three games (best of three), and in the semi-final stage, it will be played with (best of five) according to Kavalambi. In the third-place winner, the battle will be played in one game while the final will see the teams battle into the best of seven. The three-bottom-placed teams in the men’s discipline will be relegated and play in Division One league next in 2024.