Arusha Regional Commissioner Mr John Mongella has hailed Exim Bank Tanzania for its contribution to stimulating the economic transformation of the region through its products and services to various customers including investors in the tourism sector, business and industry sectors. Speaking during the dinner event organised by the bank at the end of the week specifically for its Arusha based customers, the RC said the contribution of the bank with four branches in the region is more visible through its services that are in line with the real needs of its customers in the region. “I give compliments with confidence because I am also a customer of Exim bank and I have never blamed myself for that. In the 20 years that you have been here in Arusha, you have been closer to your customers and the regional authority as well, providing financial solutions according to their needs and the nature of investments. The good number of your branches in the Arusha region proves your ambition too…congratulations,” he mentioned. The bank met with its small and large customers in the region to discuss business opportunities, introduce new services, along with educating the customers about the benefits of the services. According to the RC, the region is currently experiencing a rapid economic change driven by the growth of the tourism, business, agriculture and industrial sectors, therefore the ongoing improvements in service offerings by financial institutions, including Exim Bank, will have a great contribution to many stakeholders in the sectors. “My appeal to Exim Bank and other financial institutions is to keep on meeting your customers regularly and listen to them because the feedback you get will help you to design services and products that suit their needs,” said RC Mongella who also admired the bank’s new Supa woman Account introduced specifically for women. Speaking at the event, Exim Bank Chief Executive Officer Jaffari Matundu said they are determined to make major improvements in the provision of services to its customers by focusing on important areas, which as the improvement of service delivery systems and procedures, so that they are in line with the needs of customers and the market. “Moreover, through the new strategy we have planned to increase the professionalism and competence of our employees, invest in modern technology as well as promote our services and products to attract more customers,” said Mr Matundu, who was also accompanied by other senior officers of the bank at the event. He said that the longtime trust shown by the customers in the bank has been the reason for the lender to walk together with them giving an example of the strong relationship that existed between the bank and its customers during the economic challenges caused by the effects of Covid-19. “We fought together and we took deliberate steps to ensure that we offered a loan repayment holiday for a while until when the economic stability resumed its course… this is true friendship,” he emphasised. Speaking at the event, the Head of Retail Banking at Exim Bank, Mr Andrew Lyimo said the introduction of the bank’s new services including the Wajasiriamali account, Supa Woman account, borderless banking specifically for businesses in Tanzania and Comoros and other modern services for payment have come to join hands with other services provided by the bank specifically for customers in the region, including the bank’s TANAPA card. “The goal is to make services easier for our customers and that is why we are investing much energy in WAKALA (agency) services as well as electronic services. So far we have more than 120 agents across the country,” he mentioned while insisting that the bank has kept on giving priority to credit services for various types of customers.