MINISTER for Works and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa has commended the Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) for devising a modern digital system on smart lock that allows only tenants who have paid rent to get into the house by using a card. The system will relive the agency from using a lot of energy and time to collect rent especially from chronic land rent defaulters. Prof Mbarawa made the remarks yesterday in Arusha during his working visit to inspect the progress of the construction of Kitega Uchumi building   being constructed by TBA. He said the building will reduce housing challenges for government employees who work in Arusha city. “This system is good because those who have not paid rent will not be able to enter their houses, it will also reduce a lot of inconveniences, congratulations”, Prof Mbarawa said. He congratulated the agency for the completion of a 10-storey building with the capacity to accommodate 22 families built by using local funds. “I congratulate TBA for coming up with the project and I am satisfied with the step reached because the construction of the building has considered value for money … I hope such project will boost income and thus build more buildings in other cities,” he added. For his part, Acting Manager of TBA Arusha Region Eng Juma Dandi told the Minister that to date TBA has received about 40 requests from the people who want to rent houses, a situation that motivates them to build more houses in the region. Eng Dandi said that the completion of the building will boost revenue   collection due to the increasing number of houses owned by the agency adding that TBA has allocated funds to build other business houses. He added that, the presence of the project increases job opportunities for technicians and other workers as well as the large purchase of construction materials. The KitegaUchumi Building in Arusha region has cost 5.5 bn/- and currently it has reached 98 per cent and is expected to be completed in early April this year.