PRESIDEN Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday handed over a title deed for 125 hactares of land in Kisongo, Arusha Region to the East African Community Secretary General Dr Peter Mathuki for the regional bloc future expansion. The title deed was handed over to Dr Mathuki shortly after they held talks at the Arusha State Lodge. Mathuki was also accompanied by his delegation. The 125 acres in Kisongo area on the outskirts of Arusha City have been provided to the EAC for free by the Tanzanian government. The land was allocated to the EAC in August 2005 by the fourth phase President Dr Jakaya Kikwete who was then the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the plot was meant for the community’s future expansion. The existing three-winged EAC Headquarters Complex at the heart of Arusha was completed in 2012 and the EAC secretariat moved in, shifting from their previous rented offices at the Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC). Mr Jean Claude Nsengiyumva, the then EAC Deputy Secretary General in charge of Finance and Administration when he visited the piece of land said once the official title deed is processed, the secretariat intends to initiate grand development projects on the land. The projects to be initiated include staff housing scheme, international school, health centre, recreational facilities, exhibition ground and banking as well as a shopping mall. Meanwhile, the Chairperson of the Board, Management and Membership of the East African Business Council (EABC) has applauded President Samia Suluhu Hassan for donating and handing over land to the East African Business Council. President Samia officially handed over title deed for plot of land No.4/2 situated at Mateves Arusha. The title deed was received by Mr John Bosco Kalisa, the EABC CEO. The plot of land will enable East African Business Council to build its Headquarters in Arusha, which is also the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC). A  statement availed to the media by EABC  said  the land will  go a  long way in enabling EABC to execute its mandate as the voice of the private sector in East Africa and driving the vision of a borderless East Africa for business and investment. EABC’s mission is to advocate for a conducive business environment and promote sustainable private sector-driven growth in the EAC region. This is a testimony of the great leadership of President Samia in promoting the role of the private sector as the engine for socio-economic growth in the EAC region. The EABC further applauded the President for her deep commitment towards spearheading the EAC regional integration agenda and championing closer trade ties for increased prosperity for all East Africans. “The East African Business Council is deeply committed to partnering with the government of Tanzania Tanzania to boost intra-EAC trade, industrialisation, investments and job creation and also appreciates the Office of the Regional Commissioner of Arusha for the continued support to regional organisations based in Arusha in a bid to foster EAC integration,” said Mr Kalisa. The East African Community (EAC) is an intergovernmental organisation composed of seven countries in the Great Lakes region of East Africa, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Tanzania, Kenya, Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda. Évariste Ndayishimiye, the President of Burundi, is the current EAC Chairman. The organisation was founded in 1967, collapsed in 1977 and was revived on 7 July 2000, with the headquarters in Arusha.  