INFORMATION, Communication and Information Technology Minister Nape Nnauye has urged Longido residents to protect telecommunication towers erected near their homes. Mr Nnauye said it was a crime to sabotage the communication infrastructure, calling on the residents to exercise vigilance in protecting them. “Cell towers are an integral part of our critical telecommunication infrastructure, they should be protected as they are appealing targets to thieves and vandals,” explained the minister here recently while launching a tower at Noondoto ward, in Longido District. The minister said the government had invested heavily in the towers to enhance connectivity in the country. Such an investment will go down the drain if residents vandalise and tamper with the towers, said the minister. He reminded the residents that the government will not turn a blind eye on those attempting to vandalise the towers. “Those found culpable will be brought to book,” said the minister. According to Mr Nnauye, the government was determined to resolve the challenge of communication at the ward, which sits at border edge with Kenya, hence the need of protecting the towers at any cost. He equally directed the Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF) to erect towers in areas which were yet to be covered. For her part, UCSAF Chief Executive Officer informed Minister Nnauye that the fund had implemented 37 projects in the region. “These initiatives are aimed at improving communication in the region,” she said. The UCSAF boss said residents residing along border lines are forced to use telephone networks from neighbouring countries, saying the government was committed in addressing such a crisis. Ms Mashiba also commended the Tanzania Telecommunications Corporation (TTCL) for complementing governmnet’s efforts in providing quality service at Namanga area, which borders with Kenya. The government has set aside 199bn/- for the construction of telecommunication towers in 1,242 wards countrywide. So far, telecommunication towers have already been installed in 1,087 wards and installation work for the remaining 155 wards continues. Through the Digital Tanzania project, 763 towers will be upgraded as the government envisions seeing all citizens have access to internet services for socio-economic development.