NMB Bank on Sunday handed over an assortment of school furniture including 100 desks, 100 tables and 100 chairs worth 20m/- to two schools in Kigamboni District, Dar es Salaam Region as part of its quest to create a conducive learning environment. The bank’s Dar es Salaam Zonal Manager Mr Donatus Richard during the handover ceremony held at Mbutu Primary school in the district named the beneficiaries institutions as Mbutu Primary School and Minazini Secondary School, adding that it was  in response to the schools’ appeal to be served with some desks to address shortages they have been experiencing for some years. He further said: “It was also in part of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy that seeks to provide support to communities, where the bank operates in line with our priority areas on sectors including education, health and emergencies. “As part of our commitment, we set aside one percent of our profit after tax every year to support various development initiatives and this year alone, we have earmarked over 6bn/- for such CSR. “As one of the major education sector stakeholders in the country, we could not ignore this call. We engaged with the authorities of both schools on the matter to see how best the current learning conditions could be improved for the students, and with this donation, we believe our support will go a long way in improving the schools’ learning environment.” Gracing the occasion, Kigamboni District Commissioner Ms Halima Bulembo, said the bank’s assistance was timely support to the education sector that forms one of the biggest priorities for the sixth phase government. She further said the government has already laid the foundation for the schools’ infrastructures to flourish and hence, called upon other financial institutions and companies operating in her district to support the authority in the efforts. She added: “We know that schools in Kigamboni still face many challenges and need further support. I take this opportunity to call upon other corporate stakeholders to join our quest to likewise uplift the education sector.” Commenting on the donation, Kigamboni District Education Officer Ms Amina Maulid said Mbutu Primary School faced the shortage of 189 desks, adding that the bank’s donation would greatly address the deficit. Welcoming the donation on behalf of other pupils, a pupil from Mbutu Primary School, Ms Rose James said any pupils used to sit on the ground during classes, because there was a shortage of desks, but this time round the problem would be addressed.