SIMBA’S Assistant Coach Juma Mgunda has cherished a good working relationship with Head Coach Robertinho Oliveira saying his arrival gives him a platform to learn new coaching tactics. The two coaches are in charge of the Msimbazi Street  Reds who have currently pitched a camp in Dubai ahead of the Premier League and CAF Champions League (CAF CL) group stage assignments. Tomorrow, Simba face Al Dhafla in their first friendly match in Dubai before taking on CSKA Moscow on Sunday to wind up their two international friendly matches. “The good thing is that we are working together to push the club forward and ensure that we accomplish the set-up targets of doing well in all the competitions we are subjected to. “In football, when you get a new coach who is more advanced than you, it becomes an opportunity for you to learn new things and this is exactly what is happening to me,” Mgunda said. He added: “It is not a bad thing to bring on board a new coach and at this juncture, it shows that the management is serious in making sure that the team registers success because having a strong technical bench is a  key to the team’s prosperity.” He further revealed that Oliveira is showing interest to learn the fundamentals of the club and the only way he can fulfill that is by engaging with people who thoroughly know the team including himself. However, Oliveira’s first Premier League test will be a match against Mbeya City at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on January 17th  for the 20th round fixture and he is upbeat to begin his tenure with a victory. A win on the day will see the Msimbazi Street Reds knock 47 points to keep them climbing up the staircase toward the summit of the table. Then on January 22nd this year, Simba will play Dodoma Jiji at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma before returning to Dar es Salaam to entertain Singida Big Stars at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on February 3rd. So far, the Msimbazi street giants occupy the third place on the log with 44 points after playing 19 matches with their previous game against Tanzania Prisons ending in 7-1  producing the first double hat-tricks in a single match of the season. Skipper John Bocco and Saidi Ntibazonkiza were on fire during the encounter as each contributed three goals to the team. So far, Bocco has netted 9 goals, just one goal behind the team’s current goal scorer Moses Phiri with 10 goals.