THE ongoing project involving construction of a government-owned girls’ secondary school in Kagera Region is nearing completion and will be opened soon, it has been disclosed. Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Albert Chalamila explained that under Lot II, the project had recorded 96 per cent performance, while under Lot I it had registered 29 per cent. “On behalf of all Kagera residents, I hail President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan for empowering girls. Her zeal and determination to empower girls with quality education is taking a new shape following speedy construction of girls’ schools in various parts of the country,” he said. “Empowering girls is a right move in ensuring equality in life, given the fact that for many decades, boys have been given priority in many areas, such as education and work less at home. One of the means to empower girls is to ensure that they are kept in school and get quality education like boys. This is a basis for development, so it should be exercised by leaders at all levels, from hamlets to national level,” he said. He urged people to use their voices to keep girls in school. “When girls stay in school and finish secondary education, a lot of good things happen to them and their families. They enjoy better health and can take care of themselves and their children in future. They live longer, marry later, earn higher wages, and are more active participants in community life,” he remarked. “President Samia has shown a political will to advance the education sector. She promotes equal opportunities for both girl and boy children. My expectation is to see many female doctors, engineers, lawyers, pilots and politicians in the future,” Mr Chalamila said. The project was being constructed in Karagwe District’s Kanoni Ward through Force Account. The facilities include classrooms, library, residential houses for teachers, laboratory as well as stadium for sports, all designed to help girls to realise their dreams. The project was being implemented in ten regions including Ruvuma, Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Kagera, Shinyanga, Njombe, Singida, Lindi, Coast and Songwe. In many parts of the world, girls face considerable barriers in education. They are forced into child marriage or child labour, or fall prey to sexual exploitation or trafficking. Research shows that around the world, 132 million girls are out of school, but this actually represents progress; there were over 200 million girls out of school in 1998.