THE women wing of the ruling CCM, better known in its Kiswahili acronym as UWT has showered praises on National Chairperson of the party, President Samia Suluhu Hassan, for her decision to meet leaders of all 19 political parties in the country on Tuesday, as she strives to create political harmony in Tanzania. Speaking at a news conference on Thursday, the National Chairperson of UWT, Ms Mary Chatanda, said the decision by Dr Samia has brought new hope and highly welcomed by all peace lovers in Tanzania and globally. “The meeting between Dr Samia and leaders of the political parties has helped to provide solutions for challenges facing our democracy as a country,” Ms Chatanda told the new conference. Among others, the UWT hailed Dr Samia for lifting the ban on political rallies, which had been in place since the fifth phase government. Amid cheers from delegates who attended the historic meeting, the Head of State assured them that the government is determined to reviewing the long-awaited constitution and amending some of legislations aimed at strengthening democracy. “These decisions have brought new hope particularly for political parties in the country and will steer a new step for democratic processes in Tanzania,” the UWT Chairperson remarked. She added; “President Samia has continued to show her determination to work the talk on her preferences and acts just like she addressed the nation, when she was sworn-in to take the mantle of leadership as Head of State on March 19, 2021.” Ms Chatanda recalled the statement made by Dr Samia then as: “It is now time to move forward with hope rather than uncertainties”. She said the decision by President Samia to initiate a reconciliation process with registered political parties has ushered in new optimism in bolstering democracy and creating politics of trust among political parties, which are important pillars in building a nation of unity, peace and tranquility. “It is apparent that the philosophy of Dr Samia of uniting the country based on 4Rs, which are reconciliation, resilience, reforms and rebuilding is paying off. “Apart from political reforms, President Samia has also steered improvement in various sectors of the economy during the past two years in office despite challenges brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine,” she stated. Ms Chatanda said the new philosophy of President Samia on building the nation augurs well with promoting civilised politics aimed at uniting the people through healthy discussions in running of the country. She went on and stated that UWT joins President Samia on her call for leaders of political parties to make best use of the political rallies by engaging in civilised and constructive politics and avoid using insults and uncouth utterances. “President Samia who is also the National Chairperson of our party (CCM) is an attentive, down to earth and a leader who cherishes justice and that is why the decisions she made during the meeting with leaders of political parties puts our country in the right path in protecting our democracy,” she observed. Ms Chatanda further said that UWT always longs to see Tanzania that is united, peaceful and enjoys tranquility between its people and the government. She urged women leaders from other political parties to organise many political rallies so that they would be able to listen to various challenges facing women, since many of them face the similar hurdles across the country despite of their political affiliations.