ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has reaffirmed that his government will continue to ensure it provides quality education in order to produce skilled workforce. The Head of State made the remarks here on Monday during the official opening of two new schools in South and North Pemba. According to the president, the ongoing reforms in the education sector will lead to provision of quality education and admirable performance and in turn produce a workforce capable of developing the Islands.  The schools with high rise buildings opened by the president are Mwambe Primary school in South Pemba and Makangale Secondary School in North Pemba. “We want these reforms to be reflected in the national examinations. We want to see excellent performance and quality education that will lead to producing skilled labour force,” Dr Mwinyi said.  Elaborating, he further said that the reforms in the education sector which include renovation of old buildings and construction of new ones will improve learning and teaching environment to achieve the expected outcomes. The new schools and other renovated schools will have all the standard facilities, such as laboratory, library, and enough desks and qualified teachers, whose welfare need to be reviewed in order to motivate them. “The government is committed to ensure that it addresses students overcrowding and improve teacher- students ratio and lack of toilets,” Dr Mwinyi said, while urging students, parents, and teachers to make the best use of the improved learning environment. In a related development, the President said that, the government with the support of IMF Covid-19 relief funds injected 68bn/- to improve the education sector by constructing new buildings and improving hygiene by constructing toilets and ensure reliable water supply. “I commend the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training management for better utilisation of the funds. I promise to inject more funds about 100bn/- to finance the ongoing projects so that they are all completed come 2025,” he said. On her part, Minister for Education and Vocational Training Ms Lela Mohamed Mussa commended the government for the reforms it has undertaken to improve the education sector.  She added: “The reforms should bring the educational outcomes to a level benchmarked as the international standard, and enable our students to cope with technological changes.” She said the government is taking necessary measures to employ well-trained teachers, have modern teaching and learning facilities and the curriculum that focuses on analytical thinking skills. The Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, Mr Khamis Abdullah, informed the gathering that they are fully committed to achieve the goals as directed by President Mwinyi, and hence, called upon the students to work hard in order to improve performance in national examinations. Mr Mohamed Ahmada Salum- Chairperson, House of Representative Committee on Social Welfare, praised Dr Mwinyi for his commitment in solving challenges facing the education sector and that people should acknowledge the efforts by protecting the buildings and properties.