FOLLOWING a slim 1-0 win over Coastal Union, Simba have forecasted a tough match against African Sport whom they faceoff in the next round of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). The Msimbazi Street Reds booked the last 16 slot courtesy of Malian midfielder, Sadio Kanoute whose second half strike was enough to see Simba advance after a closely contested game at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium over the weekend. After the hard-earned victory, Simba will now take on African Sport in their next game knowing in advance that a success on the day will drive them to the quarterfinal 0stage of the contest. Besides Simba, other Premier League teams that have already sailed into the next stage KMC, Mbeya City, Singida Big Stars, Azam, Mtibwa Sugar and Geita Gold. For Coastal Union, they have been eliminated hence they need to regroup and reserve enough energy in their league clashes. In his reaction, Simba Assistant Coach Juma Mgunda envisioned another tough match against another Tanga-based, African Sport saying they need to thoroughly prepare before the game. “I know it is going to be another difficult crossword puzzle for us to solve, but, we will have ample preparations in order to emerge victors on the day. “They (African Sport) are a good team too with curious to progress further into the competition, but we will have to work hard for them and hopefully, we will make it,” remarked Mgunda. His colleague for Coastal Union Joseph Lazaro disclosed that despite the loss, they used the game as part of the preparations for their Premier League assignments. “We are not better-placed in the league standings as such; the match has helped us a lot to identify weak areas and work on how to improve them so that we can excel in our upcoming assignments,” he said. Until now, four top flight league sides which are Ruvu Shooting, Polisi Tanzania, Coastal Union and Dodoma Jiji have been booted out of the competition. However, Simba fans were surprised with the presence of Cesar Manzoki who followed the proceedings of the clash and in his brief interview after the game, he conceded that the club is his passionate.