THE First Vice-President Othman Masoud Othman has called on local producers and services providers to advertise their goods and services so as to attract customers and grow. The First Vice-President made the call to members of the business community at the ‘59th Mapinduzi International Trade Fair’ held at Maisara grounds. “Making your products and services known to people locally and internationally always pays. You can do it through exhibitions and trade fairs where many people visit,” Mr Othman said, adding that attracting customers and penetrating regional and international markets requires more efforts. Mr Othman pointed out that there have been a lot of efforts being taken by entrepreneurs’, higher learning institutions, and other producers in the country, but their products and services remain unknown to the people because of lack of promotion. “This Trade fair is an opportunity for producers, traders, and entrepreneurs to advertise and display quality products and services. It is important for institutions to understand that advertising their products is vital for their development,” Othman emphasised. He said that even the number of tourists from abroad will increase if the attraction sites in the country are well advertised abroad, along with provision of quality products and services by skilled personnel in the tourism industry. The First Vice-President, visited among others, the livestock farming pavilion, where he advised experts in livestock to use their knowledge to produce enough animal feeds currently on high demand by livestock keepers. Mr Talib Ali Suleiman from the Zanzibar Livestock Research Institute (ZALIRI) informed the Vice-President that production of enough animal feed in Zanzibar is hampered by lack of raw materials since they are imported from outside Zanzibar. The Zanzibar Vocational Training Executive Director, Dr Bakari Ali Silima informed the First Vice-President that his office has been working closely with hoteliers to know their demand in the workforce. The Managing Director of MoroBatik, Dr Marieta Mkanga, asked the government to reduce or remove tax on raw materials to make batik products (shirts, dresses and bags) more affordable.