MUSOMA Rural Constituency residents have joined forces to improve the provision of education in the area by constructing key school infrastructures. Among the initiatives undertaken by the residents include raising funds for building new schools, classrooms, laboratories, libraries and recruiting teaching staff. According to Musoma Rural MP, Prof Sospeter Muhongo, a new Bwai Secondary School has been built at Kiriba ward through a joint initiative between leaders and citizens in the constituency. He said the construction of Bwai Secondary School will help to reduce the distance that students used to travel to and from Kiriba Secondary School. “The new school will also address congestation classrooms at Kiriba Secondary,” said Prof Muhongo, noting that, the construction of Bwai Secondary was initiated by Bwai Kumsoma villagers. The school was officially launched recently and as last week a total of 125 students, equivalent to 77.85 per cent of 153 Form I students who were targeted for enrolled, had reported and started their studies. As part of continuous efforts to solicit funds for school infrastructure, last Thursday, Prof Muhongo organized a fundraising event for the construction of three more classrooms, a new toilet with four holes and an administration block, which is currently at the foundation stage. So far, three classrooms are complete and are in use. Currently the school has a single eight-hole toilet, hence, efforts are being taken to increase toilet holes, said the Musoma Rural MP. “It’s a continuous project and the fundraising is also ongoing exercise until all key infrastructure are completed, this includes three laboratories for science subjects, library, teachers houses and playing grounds,’ said Prof Muhongo. Villagers led by their leaders including councilors, Hamis Saire and Flora Magwa and CCM chairman Wanyanja Kabati donated 52 bags of cement  and labour force. For his part, Musoma Rural MP Prof Muhongo donated 100 cement bags and 24 iron sheets. The MP in collaboration with the villagers have recruited three teachers for English, Mathematics and Physics on a volunteer basis.  Every teacher will get a monthly stipend of 200,000/-, whereby the area’s MP will donate 300,000/- every month and parents will also contribute 3,000/- every month. Prof Muhungo also donated four boxes of books for the school’s library.