A CROSS section of leaders, public and private institutions have expressed their confidence in President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s leadership as she turned 63 yesterday, wishing her good health in leading the country. They also commended her on the good job she is doing in bringing development to the nation, and strengthening the country’s economic and diplomatic ties with the international communities. In her message, Speaker of the Parliament, Dr Tulia Ackson yesterday said they are praying for President Samia for a long life because of the good things she does for the country. “On behalf of the people of Mbeya City and on   behalf of all members of Parliament, I would like to wish President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan a very happy birthday”. “We pray to God to continue giving Dr Samia  much wisdom and many blessings to lead Tanzanians but also to give her strength because the work she does requires a lot of strength” she said. Dr Tulia also urged President Dr Samia to carry on with her efforts she makes in improving various sectors for the development of the country so that the Head of State can continue earning trust and confidence from Tanzanians and other world leaders. For his part, Former President Jakaya Kikwete hailed Dr Samia for the job she is doing for Tanzania, asking her to maintain the spirit. “Happy Birthday @SuluhuSamia, I wish you a long, healthy and fulfilling life,” read in part a tweet by the former President on his handle @jmkikwete. Adding:“On this auspicious day, please receive heartily congratulations on the wonderful work you’re doing for our dear country and abroad. Please continue the good work! We support you and we’ll always do”. Moreover, Kenya’s famous lawyer Patrice Lumumba said President Samia has proved to be capable of bringing development in Tanzania, as during her first year in the office, the country managed to make good progress in social, economic and political aspects. “We celebrate President Samia on her birthday, she is a good leader. Within a short period of time she has been in the office, she has shown a bold commitment in developing Tanzania as well as promoting multilateral cooperation with international communities, he said. Dr Samia, who is the sixth president of Tanzania and the first woman to head the nation, was born in the town of Makunduchi in Zanzibar, on January 27, 1960. In marking her 63 birthday, President Samia donated various items to seven orphanages. The items and cash prizes were handed over, on behalf of the President, by Deputy Minister of Livestock and Fisheries, who is also a Member of Parliament for Mkuranga Constituency Abdallah Ulega. The event was held at the Msimbazi Children’s Centre in Ilala, Dar es Salaam. Mburahati Children’s Centre was also the beneficiary of the gifts. During the event, he also toured the centre where he got first-hand information on the condition of the children who are being raised. Some of the items handed over include flour, soap, sugar, milk, oil and many others. Other centres that received the gifts are Tuangoma, Mbagala, Mbweni, Mwasonga and Sinza. Speaking during the events Mr Ulega asked Tanzanians to continue praying for the Head of State so that she could continue implementing various development activities that help the nation to move to the next level of development “We have seen how capable President Samia is in leading the country. She has done a lot of things for the development of our nation, let’s continue supporting her efforts,” he said.