COMMISSIONER General of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Mr Alphayo Kidata, has urged customs professionals in the country to embark on career development in order to improve their proficiency in facilitating international trade. Mr Kidata made the call yesterday in a speech read on his behalf by TRA’s Director of Finance, Ms Dinah Edward, during the commemoration of International Customs Day which was marked at national level in Dar es Salaam. The global event was held under a theme; “Nurturing the Next Generation; Promoting a Culture of Knowledge Sharing and Professional Pride in Customs.” Mr Kidata stressed that it was important for professionals in the field to use available opportunities in training to develop their careers. He noted further that career development was important in meeting objectives of customs which include facilitating international trade, collecting customs duties and protecting health of consumers, among others. The Commissioner General reminded the professionals that the Institute of Tax Administration (ITA) was established to provide requisite training to new and serving customs professionals in order to sharpen their skills. “You should thus explore the available training opportunities to develop your careers in the field,” Mr Kidata told the customs professionals. Speaking earlier, the TRA’s Commissioner of Customs and Excise, Mr Saidi Kiondo, said the customs field involves many players such as importers, clearing agents, transporters in addition to various government institutions. The International Customs Day is marked on January 26 each year as designated by the World Customs Organisation (WCO) which is based in Brussels, Belgium. “Tanzania is a member of WCO since the year 1964 and as such we join other customs professionals across the globe to mark the day,” he explained. Mr Kiondo said Tanzania benefits from the international organisation through provision of training opportunities and capacity building for TRA employees. On his part, the Acting Rector of ITA, Mr Philip Mbati, said the institute strives to implement knowledge sharing by engaging old hands in the profession to impart their expertise to upcoming professionals. “Apart from providing training to new and serving custom officials, the institute also engages in conducting research and providing consultancy services on tax related issues,” Mr Mbati explained. The President of Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA), Mr Edward Urio, commended TRA for trade facilitation through cooperation with clearing agents. “We appreciate cooperation between TRA and clearing agents in harnessing economic growth through trade facilitation,” the TAFFA president commented. A representative from Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA), Ms Mwanahamisi Hussein, also appreciated cooperation and facilitation from TRA in processing and issuing certificates of origin for products produced in Tanzania. “Through such cooperation between TCCIA and TRA, we are soon going to start issuing the certificates digitally,” she revealed. At the same occasion, a representative from Tanzania Shipping Agents Association (TASAA), Mr John Massawe, said efficiency at points of entry is very crucial in facilitating international trade. Mr Massawe stressed that efficiency at custom departments is very important since almost 80 per cent of international trade is shipped through oceans. During the commemoration of the event yesterday, TRA also issued certificates of appreciation to various stakeholders who have been working with the tax collectors in facilitating trade. Those who were issued with certificates include ITA, Trade Mark East Africa, International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s Africa region trade facilitation agency, tax clubs from secondary schools in addition to TAFFA Institute of Shipping and Logistics and Zanzibar Freight Bureau (ZFB). Former custom officials at TRA who now serve as lecturers at ITA were also awarded certificates for recognition of their contribution in producing new professionals in the field.