THE Chief Justice, Prof Ibrahim Juma, has urged Tanzanians to use alternative means of arbitration in resolving legal disputes to promote a sustainable economy instead of rushing to courts. Prof Juma made the appeal on Tuesday at the One Stop Centre for Family Affairs at Temeke in Dar es Salaam when briefing journalists about the 2023 Law Week and Law Day in the country. He said the celebration of Law Week would be held at national level from 22 to 29 January, 2023 at the Nyerere Square in Dodoma. The celebrations, according to him, would be preceded by a walk expected to be led by the Vice-President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Dr Phillip Mpango, from the Integrated Justice Center (IJC) Dodoma to Nyerere Square grounds. The theme for this year’s celebrations of the Law Week and Law Day, the Chief Justice said, will be the Importance of Dispute Resolution through Arbitration in Promoting a Sustainable Economy: The Role of Courts and Stakeholders. “The climax of the celebrations will be held on February 1, 2023 in Chinangali grounds, Dodoma City. The guest of honour is expected to be the President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan,” he said. Prof Juma explained that the said theme carries a specific message about the responsibility of the judiciary and its stakeholders in using the arbitration means to resolve disputes with the aim of promoting a sustainable economy. He pointed out that the Law Week is when the judiciary, stakeholders and citizens would remind each other and show the effects on the people’s and country’s economy because of the delay in disposing of cases. Prof Juma used the opportunity to encourage the residents of Dodoma region to show up at the Nyerere Square so that they could get knowledge about conflict resolution through arbitration. The Chief Justice said that the citizens who will attend at the grounds will have the opportunity to submit their complaints, opinions and suggestions for improvement of judicial services. “The High Court Zones, Regions and Districts throughout the country will also be providing legal education to the public and exhibitions,” he said. 