ZIMAMOTO enhanced their race for Mapinduzi Cup netball title after seeing off  The Talent in a one-sided game at Zanzibar Gymkhana Club courts here on Sunday. The game, however, was thrilling despite the winners occasionally facing sporadic  opposition  from The Talent’s defenders. The victory brought new life to Zimamoto players after the team lost 44-41 to KVZ in their event’s opening match and as well it brought relief to the team’s supporters. Zimamoto looked certain to win the game right after the start and their efforts paid off  instantly as they finished the quarter  leading 10-3 and went on to extend their lead to 22-5 in the second quarter. Zimamoto maintained their form in the third quarter which saw them finish off their opponents with 38-9 lead. The final quarter was even dramatic to Zimamoto as they managed to end the game with brilliant 57-11 win. The day’s second game between Bandari and Warriors was more exciting spiced up by abundance of goals. Bandari waged a brave fight to claim a 53-35 victory at the end of the fourth. The winners started well to lead 10-9 at the end of the first quarter and maintained their grip to lead 23-18 at the interval. Bandari intensified the hunt for victory in the third quarter which ended 38- 28 in favour of the winners. The tournament continues today with two games. In the first match, KVZ will lock horns with Afya while Bandari and Mafunzo will be on court to fight for vital points. Meanwhile, JKT teams continued to stamp authority in Mapinduzi Cup volleyball tournament in both men and women’s disciplines at Kilimani courts in Unguja. Five matches were staged yesterday and JKT Ladies claimed a 3-2 set victory over Mafunzo and then went on to downsize KVZ  by three straight sets at the same venue. In men’s category, JKT punished JKU with three straight sets before losing again  by a similar margin to Nyuki at the same venue. The tournament continues today at the same venue and later in the evening the matches will be played at Mafunzo courts.