YOUNG Africans Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi has cemented that proper measure will be taken to indiscipline players in his squad saying nobody is bigger than the club. He made the declaration recently in Dar es Salaam after some his players to have overstayed during a brief holiday when the Premier League was paused to pave way for 2023 Mapinduzi Cup. All players were supposed to report in the club’s camp in January 12 ahead of their Premier league match against Mbeya’s Ihefu last Sunday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. But Yanick Bangala, Bernard Morisson and Stephan Aziz Ki missed the encounter in which Yanga won 1-0. “No player is bigger than the club and I will not tolerate those who fail to adhere to the rules and regulations. As a team, every member is equal and none of them is better than the other. “For example, Fiston Mayele was the top scorer in the Democratic Republic of Congo and now, he is topping the scorers’ chart here, but he always respects training sessions and follows all the policies,” he said. Moreover, Nabi insisted that no matter how a certain player is loved by fans, if he does not do what the club requires, proper measures will be taken against him and the management cannot interfere because it is a technical issue. Yanga continue to command the Premier League helm  with 53 points from 20 matches as they intensify their quest to retain the season’s championship for the second time in a row. Their next game is against Ruvu Shooting at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Ruvu Shooting have been struggling to shrug off the relegation demon in the ongoing league hence this is a chance for them to produce good results. Just like Polisi Tanzania, Ruvu Shooting have won three matches this season and are placed in 15th slot with 14 points in the bag, hence they have to wake up before it becomes too late. With Mbwana Makata at the helm of the team after replacing Charles Mkwasa, it seems the winning remedy is yet to be established at the club with 9 matches remaining on the clock.