AFTER peaceful celebrations of Christmas and New Year, Police have cautioned motorists to continue observing safety rules as they drive back from holiday. According to Police, the end-of-year festivities were marked in serenity despite a few mishaps. Police Spokesperson, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) David Misime told the ‘Daily News’ on Monday that there were no fatal accidents recorded during the festival season. “Many people are now driving back to work after holidays while students will soon start going back to school, so the Police Force continues to remind motorists to focus on safe driving,” SACP Misime said. He commended citizens and motorists in general for observing safety rules and cooperating with the Police Force to ensure the festivities are marked in serenity. SACP Misime explained that during Christmas celebrations two deaths were reported in Chato, Geita Region and Kigamboni in Dar es Salaam. In the first incident, a fisherman head butted a fellow fisherman in Geita, while in the second incident a person stabbed another person with a knife while a car crash which occurred at Iyovi-Mikumu area in Morogoro involving Toyota Allion IT 6954 claimed five lives. On his part, the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Meloe Buzema, Staff Officer from  Traffic  Police Unit  said that decline in traffic crashes was due to intensified security and public education of road safety. “We intensified highway patrol which went hand in hand with providing education to motorists and travellers… fines were also imposed on reckless drivers,” he said. Meanwhile, Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Jumanne Muliro said police beefed up security during New Year celebrations to ensure serenity. “May I take up this opportunity to congratulate city dwellers for obeying the law that has led to the peaceful conclusion of New Year celebrations,” he said. The Special Zone Police commander added that car and foot patrols were intensified in many streets in Dar es Salaam.