PETTY Traders in Zanzibar City on Thursday celebrated the opening of the Central Market at Darajani after two months closure for major renovation. Ms Mwanakombo Hassan Omar, a food vendor was among many petty traders who turned up for the opening ceremony of the Darajani historical market after the major renovation at a cost of 402m/- “We appreciate the efforts being undertaken by President Hussein Mwinyi to improve our operations environment… we promise to protect the infrastructures at the market, maintain cleanliness and pay taxes,” Ms Omar said. State Minister- President’s office- Regional Administration, Local Government and Special Department Mr Masoud Ali Mohamed who officiated the evening ceremony reaffirmed government’s commitment to re-organise and support petty traders. “After major renovation of this Darajani market, the 260 traders who were conducting their businesses before the closure for renovation should be given first priority to return to their areas and  the market  operate  24 hours,” he said. The minister noted that the tax should not be increased following the renovation. He said Zanzibar government under Dr Mwinyi is set to build modern markets in different areas so that  petty traders can operate in a safe and orderly manner and avoid  displaying their commodities at the  road sides /streets, and other unauthorised areas. Mr Mohamed warned executives in Mjini Municipal Council and the ministry against harassing the petty traders and that even when they violate regulations, they must be handled in decent manner because their contribution to the grwoth of the isles economy was vital. The Regional Commissioner (RC) for Urban-West Region or Mjini-Magharib  Mr Idriss Kitwana Mustafa said Zanzibar government has been working to ensure all petty traders engaged in small businesses dress and provide services in a decent placeS. “We thank Dr Mwinyi for his commitment to ensure petty traders development. Let us recognised that by obeying the municipal and other laws, and operate in new market while keeping the environment clean,” the RC said. Darajani  market was built in colonial time about 122 years ago, has been undergoing renovation, but the recent reconstruction which started last November, was huge. It is a multi-market where consumers including tourists like to visit to buy fresh Vegetables, fruits, and essential needs.