ECONOMISTS have said that Tanzania is on the right track in attaining development, but called for more commitment from policy makers. The statement was made on Wednesday in Dar es Salaam by a cross-section of economists during a public seminar coordinated by the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF). Commenting during the seminar titled ‘Gambling on development: Why some countries win and others lose’, a Professor of Economic Policy at the Blavatnik School of Government, Stefan Dercon  said recently that the country is on the right track to further attaining development. Prof Dercon who is also Director of a Centre for Study of African Economies at Oxford University underscored that in order for the country to keep flourishing in development there is a need for commitment among the elite bargainers. “The country needs elite bargaining that involves a shared commitment to growth and development,” Prof Dercon added. The economist also noted that development lies upon an ‘elite bargain’ between those with power and influence on growth and development. “Without this, aid and development agencies are limited in their ability to support transformative change,” he expounded. Prof Dercon emphasised the need for an elite bargain which involves a shared commitment to three essential features of development including peace and stability, a self-aware state and bureaucratic or political error-correction. “The bargain must provide the basis for peace and stability, the state must be focused on achieving progress but also be realistic about its own capabilities and those involved must be willing to learn from errors,” he added. On his side, Associate Professor at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Jehovaness Aikaeli, underlined the significance of embracing policy and coherence in attaining development. Prof Aikaeli added that consistency in policy coherence will also make the policy-maker understand how their choices could impact on wellbeing and sustainable development elsewhere. For his part, the Head of the Department of Governance and Capacity Development at the ESRF, Mr Danford Sango, advised the country to continue upholding peace and stability in order to flourish in attaining national development.