KAGERA Regional Commissioner, Albert Chalamila has directed the Regional Police Commander, ACP William Mwampaghale to investigate reports of teachers with sexual relationship with their underage students and take the culprits to court. He said during the swearing-in of four newly appointed District Commissioners at his office in Bukoba Municipal Council, the government would not tolerate teachers who have inappropriate intimate relations with their students because that is illegal, abusive, and non-consensual. “Expose those teachers who cast the teaching profession in a negative light. It is sad and disturbing to learn that some teachers have inappropriate sexual relations with their students. That’s an unforgivable sin.” He said he had confirmed reports that two Standard Seven pupils of Bubaga Primary School and Kalonge Primary School, in Bukoba DC had been married off by irresponsible parents,” he said. Elaborating, Mr Chalamila said teachers were arguably the most respected professionals doing a lot for the country in terms of education and parenting. As professionals they are expected to exert reasonable effort to protect the student from conditions which interfere with learning or are harmful to their health and safety, he said. He explained that the government was committed to ensure that education is improved and that the strategies included construction of classrooms to address the problem of congestion in classrooms and provide desks to enable pupils study in a more conducive environment. He also warned all the teachers in the region including Ward Education Officers (WEOs) to strictly adhere to the set down regulations on corporal punishment. The list of the newly-appointed District Commissioners with their respective stations in brackets includes Mr Erasto Sima (Bukoba), Dr Abel Nyamahanga (Muleba), Mr Japhet Maganga (Kyerwa) and Mr Julius Laiser (Karagwe). Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Advera John Bulimba, who was Nzega DC,   has been transferred to Biharamulo District replacing Ms Kemilembe Rose Rwota, who was transferred to Manyoni. Two DCs retained their former stations including Col Wilson Sakulo (Missenyi) and Col Mathias Kahabi (Ngara).