VICE-PRESIDENT Dr Philip Mpango has directed Dodoma Regional Authorities to use the vast land that the country’s capital is endowed with to implement grand agricultural projects to boost the country’s economy as well as help individual farmers to earn their expected income. The VP issued the directive here yesterday when officiating an event to outline key achievements recorded by Dodoma Region during the two years that President Samia Suluhu Hassan has been in the highest office of the land. Dodoma Region, according to the Regional Administrative Officer (RAS), Dr Fatuma Mganga, had 4.1 million hectares of land whereas half of it was suitable for agriculture. At the event, Dr Mpango asked authorities in the region to implement the strategies under the Ministry of Agriculture in order to increase employment opportunities, food security in the region and the country at large, as well as raw materials for industries among others. In his speech read on his behalf by the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local government), Angella Kairuki, the VP insisted that he was convinced by the tremendous strides recorded by the region in the agriculture sector especially in sunflower, millet and grapes, among others. “All of you agree with me that this sector is vital for the country’s economy because it is the main source of food, employment, forex as well as raw materials for local and international industries,” he noted. Dr Mpango reminded Tanzanians that the country was blessed with good weather condition and geographical location which enables both pastoralists and farmers to have good end products that were adding up to their economies and the country at large. Through various policies and programmes, the VP said, the government was fully committed to bringing green revolution by making agriculture part of the largest investments in the country. Earlier, Dodoma Regional Commissioner (RC), Rosemary Senyamule said that the agriculture sector was one among key priorities of the region with a view to intensifying food security as well as boosting economies of area residents. She said in attaining the target, the region had set crucial programmes for priority crops advising residents in the region to capitalise on the plans set by the sixth phase government. The event was also attended by Retired Speaker of the National Assembly, Job Ndugai and Former Prime Minister, Mizengo Pinda. In his remarks, Mr Ndugai who doubles as Kongwa lawmaker asked Dodoma residents to support the government’s efforts in bringing about development. “I want you to get rid of myths and negative mentalities that the government can always do everything for you,” he said.