PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan’s determination to empower girls with quality education is now taking a new shape following speedy construction of girls’ schools in various parts of the country. The government is now implementing a programme that involves the construction of 26 secondary schools for girls across the country, aimed at equipping girls with quality education. A total of 30bn/- was approved by President Samia for the construction of the government owned girls’ schools in ten regions, where each project was allocated with 3bn/-. The lists of regions that are in the allocation include Ruvuma, Dar es Salaam, Lindi, Kagera, Songwe, Singida, Coast, Mwanza, Shinyanga and Njombe. Successful implementation of the programme can be attested by the good pace so far recorded in the construction of Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan Girl’s Secondary School in Namtumbo District, Ruvuma region. On Friday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa laid the foundation stone for the construction project that is set to cost 4bn/- upon completion. The school that is being built under the Secondary Education Quality Improvement Programme (SEQUIP) will have a capacity to accommodate 1,080 students. The implementation of the project is done in two phases. The implementation of first phase kicked off on 6th April 2022, and it is expected to be completed end of this month at the cost of 3bn/-. Speaking during the event, Premier Majaliwa said by the end of the first phase of the construction period, the school will have 22 buildings that will accommodate 600 students at once. According to him, the second phase of the construction will cost 1bn/-, and will accommodate 480 students into the newly built school. “The second phase involves construction of 10 classrooms with   three staff offices, an Information and Communications Technology (ICT) room, library, staff quarters and four dormitories,” he said. Mr Majaliwa  noted that Dr Samia’s continued efforts to invest heavily in the educational sector is based on her determination to address social challenges, especially those facing girls across the country. He went on to ask contractors to ensure the project is completed on time and as per the agreed standard so that it can receive Form Five students in July this year. Speaking recently, Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Angela Kairuki also insisted on the need for contractors to speed up and ensure timely completion of the projects across the country. “President Samia Suluhu Hassan recently approved an allocation of 30bn/- for the construction of government-owned girls’ secondary school in ten regions, so contractors have to increase speed and labour force and ensure that the projects are completed on time,” she said. Speaking yesterday, Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Dr Festo Dugange expressed determination to properly supervise the projects for them to be completed on time and at the required    standards. The deputy minister, who serves in the health docket, said the government will provide two vehicles to each of the  184 local government councils. “All the councils will receive one ambulance and another vehicle to be used for supervision of health services,” he said.