TANZANIA Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (TCCIA) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Russia’s Universa Blockchain to start issuing Certificate of Origin of goods for its members electronically. Speaking shortly after the signing of historical agreement meant to transform the chamber’s performance in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, TCCIA Executive Director, Mr Nebart Mwapwele said issuance of certificate of origin online would improve services and increase credibility of the chamber for members and business community in general. “Under the agreement through new system, members will not need to incur costs of travelling all their way to the Chamber’s Headquarters in Dar es Salaam and reduce paper work, instead, everything will be done electronically,” Mr Mwapwele explained. He said the technology would smoothen the entire process of issuing the certificates of origin and yet stimulate business growth and development for the betterment of members and business community at large. “We thank the Universa Blockchain for signing this agreement with us (TCCIA) since we are optimistic that our services will greatly be improved and benefit our members,” he said, calling more transformations. Earlier, the Managing Director of Universa Blockchain, Mr Alexander Borodish said the new system would increase confidence of customers since they would know exactly the origin where the goods come from. “The presence of this system at TCCIA will benefit Tanzania as among first countries to use this system that will minimise the usage of papers since the system is secured, transparent and reliable, Mr Borodish said. He said his company was proud of working with TCCIA taking into account that it has the largest network of members who would benefit a lot from the system and increase their businesses globally. On his part TCCIA Vice-President (Industry), Mr Clement Bocco said through the system the chamber would meet expectations of its members. “We hope this system will help in ensuring safety of members’ information plus increasing work efficiency,” he said. TCCIA Board Member, Dr Saidi Mtemi Kingu commended the agreement, saying it was timely signed as the board promised members. “It is optimism that the system will improve issuance of certificate of origin and other services offered by the chamber,” Dr Kingu said.