YANGA Princess leapfrogged their traditional rivals Simba Queens after stamping a hefty 5-2  win over Alliance Girls at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Friday. The victory has enabled Yanga Princess to snatch seven points and are now stationed third at the log behind JKT Queens, who lead with ten points, and Fountain Gates Princess with similar points, but the leaders have superior goal average. Yanga Princess’s teamwork enabled Aniella Uwimana to bank a brace, and her fellow teammates Maimuna Hamis, Amina Bilali, and Wincate Kinyua claimed one goal each. Their opponents fought hard and lodged two goals from Fatuma Hassan and Alya Fikiri. As the fourth round of the Women Mainland League wraps out, Simba Queen’s coach Charles Lukula and Fountaion Gate Princess coach Alex Alumirah remarked on their last encounters at Uhuru this week, which ended with Simba winning 2-1. Lukula speaking after the game, said he has observed a few issues that he will work on, especially in the defensive midfielder. The team conceded goals in four games to clearly show they had shortcomings that needed to be treated early to put themselves in the Women’s Mainland League title race. “I want to get a defensive midfielder and more defenders; I believe if we make those improvements, we will be fine and come back better. This league has been intense, as each team looks well organised.” Lukula said despite a poor start to the league with the loss to JKT; they are slowly recovering, although he sees how his players are playing under the pressure in finding results. “I want to thank the players for their dedication; we got three points; we want to go ahead and prepare for the next game,” said Lukula. Fountain Gate Princess coach Alex Alumirah said he had seen how his side and the opponents played and he was also proud of his players’ fighting spirit. “The way my players played and lost 2-1 doesn’t put pressure on me. If we meet in the second round, we can defeat them. I congratulate my team for the effort; it’s just a small mistake we made, but still, I believe in them.”