The first phase of construction of Magogo Stadium, which is being built by the Geita Town Council in collaboration with Geita Gold Mining Limited, is scheduled to be completed in May this year. Simon Shayo, the Vice President of AngloGold Ashanti who oversees Sustainability for Ghana and Tanzania, said this recently in Geita while addressing the media following the conclusion of the game between Geita Gold FC and Coastal Union from Tanga in which the home team won by a goal to nil. He stated that the stadium being built in the Magogo area of Geita Town is nearing the end of its first stage of construction. He said that they were constructing a better and safer stadium for users and that the work was being completed effectively under the supervision of a contractor who had been appointed by the Geita Town Council to provide consultation on how to complete the first phase and the other phases of construction. “Our goal is to ensure that the first phase of construction is completed and ready by May of this year, working with the council and the leadership of the Geita region. Therefore, a lot will depend on how quickly our contractors and everyone else we deal with construct this stadium. This is because we want it to be a proper stadium; if we rush it, there could be risks for people’s safety or potential problems down the road. Since safety is our first value as a Company, we would like to see players and spectators engaging in their normal activities on a field that is safe,” said Shayo. He added that he now sees the squad succeeding when discussing the sponsorship of more than TZS 800 million that Geita Gold Mining Limited has extended to Geita Gold Football Club. “We have watched the team succeed, seen how the players performed in prior games, heard that the players are growing more compatible, and as long as the team remains intact, we think it will improve over time. Our goal is to ensure that Geita Gold FC wins the championship of Tanzania on the mainland rather than just finishing in the top four. We anticipate that soon, visitors to Geita will be able to compete against the Tanzanian league’s champion,” he said. Speaking about the stadium’s construction and amenities, Zahara Michuzi, the director of the Geita Town Council, asserted that it will provide additional economic opportunities for the locals of Geita region as a result of the stadium hosting a large number of people for the NBC Premier League championship. The first phase of construction of the stadium is estimated to cost TZS 2.4 billion of which Geita Gold Mining Limited has funded almost 80% through its CSR Plan in collaboration with the Geita Town Council. The stadium will serve as Geita Gold Football Club’s home ground.