ZANZIBAR’s Second Vice-President Hemed Suleiman Abdulla has promised that the government would improve the welfare of officers of Zanzibar Special Department to enhance their efficiency. Abdulla also said the government would continue to ensure a conducive working environment for officers so that they continue carrying out their duty of ensuring that peace and stability in the country are maintained. The Second Vice-President made the promise here at the opening of the volunteers’ Special Force (Kikosi Maalum cha Volantia Zanzibar- KVZ) new camp/houses project in Muyuni Village, Unguja South Region. The event is among the activities to celebrate the 59th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution. He said one of the objectives of the 1964th Zanzibar Revolution was to economically and socially liberate the poor majority citizens who the Eighth Phase government perpetuates the concept by implementing development projects such as better housing for the security officers. Mr Abdulla commended the KVZ for proper management and utilisation of funds on the project which demonstrates patriotism in managing public funds. He also praised the department for its plans to establish a petrol station, construction of shops and a modern poultry farming project in the camp as part of the sources of revenue. The Second Vice-President expressed appreciation to President Hussein Ali Mwinyi for his continued commitment in building Zanzibar and promoting peace and stability. State Minister, President’s Office (Regional Administration, Local Government and Special Departments) Mr Masoud Ali Muhamed commended Dr Mwinyi for good leadership and allocating funds for the construction of projects in various camps of the special Departments. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr Issa Mahfoudh explained that the implementation of the KVZ projects was for five years (2018-2023, which will cost more than 4.1bn/- while the head of the KVZ Major Said Ali Juma Shamhuna explained that the army’s houses have been constructed in various camps with the aim of providing a conducive environment for the officers.