THE epic Mapinduzi Cup final match between Mlandege and Singida Big Stars best describes the 59th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution at Amaan Stadium today. It is also a revolutionary final match as this year it has not been a Dar es Salaam giants’ final as it was last year at the same venue when Simba and Azam met. From Singida, the surprise package Singida Big Stars powered their way to the final with a sound tone. They began their onslaught with a 2-0 victory over KMKM before stamping a 1-1 draw with Young Africans in their group B matches before punishing the five time cup’s champions, Azam with a 4-1 blitz. Zanzibar’s Mlandege played a 1-all-draw in their opening group C match against KVZ before beating Simba 1-0 in their last group stage match. They went on to beat Namungo  5-4 in a penalty shootout after their 1-1 draw at the end of the 90th minute. But in what is expected to be an enticing final Singida Big Stars coach Hans Van Der Pluijm told ‘Daily News’ that he is enjoying facing Zanzibar’s team as they are playing with high intensity recalling their opening match against KMKM where they won 2-0. “I’m enjoying facing Zanzibar’s team as they are always determined to play with high intensity and I think today’s game will be no different from the first match we played KMKM and It can be even more as this is the final match,” said Pluijm, the former Young Africans and Azam coach. He said they are aware of the danger they can cause them but they too urgently need the title and they will put everything on the pitch. “We are ready for the challenge and I’m used to it just as they need the trophy we too need it and we will put everything on the pitch to get back home with it,” said Pluijm. The coach added all his players are ready for the game and they are just waiting for the time to give Zanzibar’s football supporters entertainment. Pluijm’s statement was no different from his striker Kasengu Francis Kazadi who hinted that he will be delighted if his goals will help his team to win titles. The newly-signed Singida Big Stars striker is leading Mapinduzi Cup with five goals he netted in two games. He scored his first goal in a 1-1 draw with  Young Africans before scoring all four goals in a 4-1 win against Azam. Speaking with ‘Daily News’ Kazadi said he is happy to have been leading the Mapinduzi Cup goal scoring chart but he will be more delighted if his goals will help Singida Big Stars win titles, particularly Mapinduzi Cup. “I score goals to help my team win this title and any title we will participate in. I  was a little bit interested to score goals for sake of winning the golden boot and in the end, my team couldn’t win anything,” said Kazadi the former Al Masry striker. Meanwhile, Mlandege’s coach Mohamedi Balesi said he is aware of the threat that Kazadi can cause on his team but he said they are already working on tactics to silence not only him but also the entire Singida Big Stars team. “He is a good striker. To score those goals in just two games is not a joke and we are aware of his quality and experience but I am working on tactics that will shut down not only him but the entire Singida Big Stars team,” said Balesi whose side will meet Singida Big Stars in Mapinduzi Cup final at Amaan Stadium today.