WINLESS demon again struck the bottom-placed Polisi Tanzania and Ruvu Shooting as none failed to secure victory following a barren draw in their Premier League game on Monday. Both teams have not won a single game in their last five matches, as they both drew once while losing four others. The nineteenth round of the Premier League winds up with a tense match between the rejuvenated Ihefu and KMC at Southern Highlands Estate in Mbarali, Mbeya today. After the fixture, the league will be suspended to pave way for the 2023 Mapinduzi Cup at Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar, only to bounce back on January 13th when the 20th round of the league goes into action. Ihefu managed to pick a solid 3-1 victory over Kagera Sugar in their previous league match which gives them confidence to stamp a second successive home win. From 18 games, they have collected 17 points meaning that a victory in today’s clash will drive them to 20 points but they will be still placed 13th. However, they still enjoy a remarkable feat after ending a 49-match unbeaten run by Young Africans which came to a conclusion on the same turf (Southern Highlands Estate) and so far, are the only side to beat the defending champions in the league this season. Their opponents, KMC are also eager to stage a good resistance so as to collect maximum points from a difficult venue and award their fans a New Year reward. If they win, the Kinondonibased side will jump from ninth to sixth place thereby leapfrogging Mtibwa Sugar, Geita Gold, and Kagera Sugar respectively who have 24 points. Already, KMC’s coach Thierry Hitimana indicated that they target to finish the campaign in the top four so as to earn a chance of playing in CAF Interclub games. After today’s match, KMC will unzip the league’s 20th round with an away fixture, taking on Mtibwa Sugar at Manungu Complex in Morogoro on January 13th. For Ihefu, they expect to visit Yanga at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city on January 16th for their 20th Premier League match of the season.