THE Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Dr Angeline Mabula, has underscored the importance of imparting moral values and ethics to Real Estate Agents. Dr Mabula made the statement in Dar es Salaam on Monday while opening a short course for Real Estate brokers conducted by the College of Business Education (CBE) in collaboration with the Association of Real Estate Agents (AREA). “Along with the professional training provided, there is a great importance to provide training related to ethics because that area has been causing many complaints from the community,” she said. According to Dr Mabula, there were some brokers who were accused of committing fraudulent acts whereby they deceive customers. The agents tend to sell plots while they know that the plots already belong to other owners and at the end of the day such acts create conflicts. “Training in ethics is very important to build credibility, provide quality services and thus enable business to grow and build trust among the community members you serve,” said Dr Mabula, pointing out that, in some countries including Kenya and South Africa, the professional brokers are respected and appreciated. The issues of integrity and professionalism are considered and managed properly. She added that Kenya has a law for the registration of agents known as the Estate Agents Act of 1984 amended in 2012 while South Africa has a law called the Property Practitioners Act of 2019 which created the authority to supervise property professionals including real estate management agents. Dr Mabula applauded the CBE and the AREA for developing a training program aimed at ensuring that the field of real estate agency is professionally operated. ”This step you have taken to teach young entrepreneurs who are engaged in informal activities to formalize their activities will help them not only to build their professional ability but also to build their confidence and trust in the community,” she pointed out. She further noted that the ministry will provide good cooperation to ensure that the field of real estate agencies is improved and works efficiently and productively. The Chairman of the AREA, Mr Erick Rweikiza, has said that the aim of his association is to create a better environment to educate members on the profession as well as defend the interests of buyers. “The intention is to teach the unemployed to become self-employed through the profession of real estate agents,” said Rweikiza. For her part, the Acting Principal of CBE Prof Edda Lwoga said, the education provided by the college to agents is offered under an ambitious plan to reach Tanzanian youth and formalize informal activities carried by a majority of Tanzanians.