PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has urged the public to take up the role of safeguarding the subsidised fertilisers released by the government, to ensure the goal of increasing agricultural production in the 2022/2023 season becomes a reality. According to him, a tendency has emerged, where a section of Tanzanians with ill intention have been smuggling fertilisers to neighbouring countries, leaving behind a scarcity among farmers, something which is not acceptable. “The acts should be strongly condemned and through collaborative efforts, we should stay on alert…the available fertiliser is only meant for Tanzanians, therefore, every person should be a guard to their fellows,” said Mr Majaliwa when he made a stopover to greet the residents of Mbalizi in Mbeya Region, yesterday as part of his tour in the region to inspect the government projects. He noted that issuance of the subsidies is intended to increase food production in the country, warning against reselling the fertilisers outside the country. The Premier indicated that earlier the fertilisers were being sold at above 100,000/- per bag forcing the government under the leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan to disburse 150bn/- to subsidise the crucial farm input to be sold at around 70,000/- for the same unit. The Premier added that “we should not accept the monies to be used outside the intended goals…let’s protect the fertilisers not to be sold to unintended people. “I’m very pleased with the development in Songwe Region, where 2,199 tonnes have been impounded from a neighbouring country, something which is unacceptable. All Tanzanians should be on guard; because this is our money that is being smuggled by a few…our objective is to serve you.” Besides, he used the opportunity to present the various status attained in the improvement of Songwe International Airport, noting that a runway has already been completed by 100 per cent, while execution of a passenger terminal is at 96 per cent as installation of lights was on progress. “The goal is to attract a wide market from neighbouring countries like DR Congo, Zambia and Malawi for their flights to carry out routes here…the President is implementing all these as part of her strong commitment and vision to bring development to the people,” noted the PM. On his part, the Minister for Water, Mr Jumaa Aweso who was accompanying the PM on the tour revealed that the president has endorsed a sum of 3.3bn/- for the implementation of the Shongo- Igale water project, which has already been completed and now in use. He added that the president also approved 4.8bn/- for the execution of water project in Inunga to increase production capacity from eight million litres to 12 million litres despite the demand being eight million litres. Commenting, Deputy Minister in the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr David Silinde outlined that the government has allocated 580m/- for the construction of 29 classrooms in Mbeya District Council, which have already been completed by 100 per cent and were in use. Earlier, a section of the residents of the area requested Mr Majaliwa to help tackle a compensation challenge resulting from leaving their areas to give room for the airport construction since 2002. In response, the Songwe Airport Manager, Eng Danstan Komba notified the PM that the claims are due to less compensation and not otherwise. He said a team was appointed to probe the matter, asking people to be patient while their concerns are being worked on.