THE Zanzibar Minister for Social Development, Elderly Gender and Children Ms Riziki Pembe Juma has hailed members of the ‘SINO-Africa Youth (SAY) here, for supporting elders and children as they celebrate the Chinese New Year. She praised the existing cooperation between Zanzibar and China, describing it as exemplary. “Our relations and cooperation are growing stronger, benefiting the people of Zanzibar directly and indirectly,” she said. The Chinese New Year is the most important holiday in China, and its celebrations here were organised by the Chinese youth community dedicated to contributing to Africa development through the SAY- Zanzibar, which was founded by Ms Li Yaya from China. During the event to celebrate Chinese New Year, SAY hosted lunch with elders and children at several care centre in Unguja West ‘B’ District, where the minister promised that the government will maintain relationships with SAY members and other stakeholders for the Islands’ development. Ms Riziki praised SAY members led by Ms Li for deciding to celebrate the New Year by hosting lunch and having some light moment with children including orphans at the Mazizi Care Centre, and elders living at Sebleni and Welezo care homes. She described the move as commendable. “I’m pleased with this gesture and let me assure you that the ministry’s doors are open to any philanthropic group or individual, who wants to contribute to the wellbeing of the elderly and children,” she said. Ms Li, on behalf of SAY, thanked the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar led by President Hussein Mwinyi for cooperation they got from the Ministry of Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children. “We thank the government for giving us go ahead to host lunch for children and the elderly as part of activities to celebrate the Chinese New Year,” she said. She said SAY also continue to teach or train young people in Zanzibar the Chinese language and so far, they have taught 288 people, including students and teachers the Chinese language.