POLITICAL parties in the country have been urged to use the opportunity availed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan of lifting ban on political rallies by conducting civilised politics. The remarks were made yesterday by Good News for All Ministry, Bishop Dr Charles Gadi in a meeting with journalists held in Dar es Salaam. “I commend President Samia for making a historic decision by allowing political parties to conduct rallies and other activities in civilised manner,” he said. Dr Gadi said Tanzanians should continue praying for the Head of State for her good work of leading   the nation to the right path of development. He said Dr Samia’s decision to lift ban on political rallies has been welcomed by majority of members of the public. Dr Gadi also commended the President’s New Year message she delivered to Tanzanians saying it has awakened new spirit and hope in 2023. “We continue praying for her so that God can grant her wisdom, health and power   to continue working for our nation in order to attain social, economic and political development,” Bishop Gadi said. On his part, the ministry’s Secretary Bazalel Masawe said that   Tanzanians and political parties should support the president in her endeavor to build democracy in the country. “Political parties involved in reconciliation should use this opportunity to conduct civilised politics which will promote the country’s development and justice,” he said. On Tuesday, President Samia met leaders from 19 political outfits at State House in Dar es Salaam. The president stresses on civilised politics, national interest and mutual understanding. She emphasised on the need for political parties to play safe by avoiding inciting violence. “Both of us (government and political parties) have a role to play; we have to ensure peace is maintained for our sustainable development and the rallies have to be conducted in civilised manners,” she said. Adding; “We need to have proper politics that will take our country to greater heights, let’s continue having mutual understandings as we are building the same country through different opinions. The Head of State assured that the government will play an effective role of protecting people and ensuring the rallies are conducted in a peaceful way by providing security throughout the events.