THE religious leaders have pledged to plant 100, 000 trees in supporting the government’s efforts in protecting the environment to fight climate change effects in the New Year 2023. They said they will organize a movement on environment conservation that will include tree planting while preaching the word of God. The statement was made recently by association of religious leaders namely “Lake Zone Association of Prophets” during a press conference led by their spokesperson Pastor  Godfrey Fungo. The new conference, which was in line with activities to welcome the New Year 2023, was held at the Divine Favour Christian Church based in Nyamagana District. Pastor Fungo said environment conservation and the life are inseparable, calling upon citizens to protect their environment by avoiding illegal tree cutting which can lead to desertification with its related harmful consequences including low rainfall and surge in cost of living due to food shortage. “Making good environment for our country depends on our desire to see more tree flourishing. Protecting the environment is a must,” said Pastor Fungo, spokesperson of Lake Zone Association of Prophets. He further commended the government for its visionary decision of implementing different strategic economic projects including the 1596-kilometre Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), worth 16.67tri/-, as well as the Kigongo-Busisi Bridges, a  3-kilometre  bridge, worth 716bn/-,  which all aims at positioning Tanzania at a better economic position. For his part, Lake Zone Association of Prophets’ Chairperson, Pastor Festo Benjamini appealed for unity, peace and love among people countrywide to achieve sustainable development. “President Samia has showcased her firm stance on building Tanzania by upholding peace, let us give support, religious leaders must also unite, “noted pastor Benjamini. He also urged citizens to work hard by effectively using the rain season for agriculture production, noting that hard workers with strong faith in God always achieve a great success in life. On her part, Pastor Beatrice Kimaro of the Divine Favour Christian Church said they will keep on praying for peace and rainfall to fight climatic change effects such as droughts. .