Minister for Minerals, Dr Doto Biteko has said that the government is in the process of resuming gemstone auctions, geared towards bringing big buyers and traders into the country. This was stated at the launching of a mineral tourism shop of the Tanzanite Experience Company in Manyara Kibaoni area in Karatu District, Arusha Region. Minister Biteko said through the auction, the firm, through the newly launched shop will get a lot of gemstones for development of the centre and other areas. Biteko said that through the centre which is located in the northern tourism circuit, the shop has been attracting a good number of local and foreign tourists. He said that Tanzanian gemstones, especially Tanzanite, are mostly being purchased in large quantities by tourists who come to visit our national parks. The minister said that the government will continue to support vigorous efforts and initiatives by the private sector to promote gemstones that are found in the country. He added that the Ministry of Minerals commends the investment which has been made 100 per cent by Tanzanians. Dr Biteko said that such initiatives by the private sector are in line with the efforts of President Samia Suluhu Hassan in promoting the country’s rich natural resources and creating a conducive environment for investments. “It should be remembered that through the ‘Royal Tour Film’ featuring President Samia, she widely promoted Tanzanite minerals as among the attractions available in the country,” said Dr Biteko. He said the ministry encourages such kind of investment which directly supports the efforts made by the government to promote Tanzanite and other minerals in the world. Dr Biteko called on people who are interested in investing in gemstone cutting not to hesitate coming and invest in adding value to minerals and in the process provide jobs to Tanzanians and increase revenue in forms of taxes. On his part, the Director of Tanzanite Experience Hassinne Sajani has said that the shop has become a big attraction for Tanzanians and tourists from abroad who buy several mineral products. He also added that the company has 80 employees and more than 80 per cent are residents of Manyara Kibaoni. For his part, the Manager of Tanzanite Experience, Junaid Khan said that more than 6000 visitors have come to visit the Tanzanite Experience Company Karatu District Head Dadi Kolimba has said that mining business which is opened in Karatu district will increase income and explained that he has congratulated the company for providing more than 80 jobs to Tanzanians in various positions.