THE Minister for Community Development, Gender, Women and Special Groups, Dr Dorothy Gwajima, has called on players to ensure proper implementation of Kizazi Hodari project that targets to maintain health, well-being and protection of orphans in vulnerable situations with high risk of HIV infections. Kizazi Hodari is a five –year (2022-2027) activity funded by the American people through the US Agency for International Development (USAID) to support the government of Tanzania to improve the health, well-being and protection of Orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) and youth aged 0-17 in high HIV burden communities in 12 regions. The activities contribute to the achievement of the joint United Nations Programme on HIV/ Aids (UNAIDS) 95-95-95 goals through OVC comprehensive and preventive services. The key implementers of the project are the Ministry for Community Development, Gender, Women and Special Groups, President’s Office Local Government and Regional Administration, Deloitte Consulting Limited and the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania (LCT). Deloitte manages five regions in the Southern Zone chapter of the project, namely, Lindi, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Iringa and Njombe. Speaking during the launch of the project on Wednesday, Dr Gwajima said apart from key thematic areas identified in the project, it was important for the project to also dwell on giving the right education on nurturing, growth and early development of children. “It is better that in the course of implementation of the project proper education is incorporated that will prepare boys to graduate into better men in the future, “ she noted. The minister said a total of 138,944 orphans and households will be covered under the project. Earlier, Deloitte Country Director, Ms Zahra Nensi, said the project aimed at widening the horizon for identification of children, who are HIV positive and to integrate them into the mainstream health services aimed at reducing the HIV viral load. “In all our activities children, adolescents and youth have been the epicenter of our work. This is because we recognise, and we believe that, we must prioritise and strategically invest in the health, well-being, protection and education because our social-economic future depends on it,” said the Deloitte boss. The Deloitte executive also noted that another aim was to improve the economic situation of adolescent girls and caretakers of children living under vulnerable situations. “The major outcome targeted is an increase in HIV infection preventive services, keeping at bay harassment of children and boosting response programmes for orphans and youth,” said Zahra. On the other hand, USAID Country Director, Kate Msomvongsiri, said upon completion of the project, it was envisioned that it would have employed and given various services to 90 per cent of the targeted children and youth.