DIGITAL banking has become an important platform for the banking sector to provide secure services and boost their penetration particularly to reach the most unbanked population in rural areas. The NMB Western Zone Marketing Manager, Mr Trifon Malkiory said through digital banking, individuals can now easily make transactions, check their account balance or even make transfers just with a single click of a button on their smartphone, desktop and other digital devices. “The shift to digital banking offers benefits for consumers, including greater convenience and security, while enabling banks and financial service providers to profit,” he said. Mr Trifon said it is from this background that NMB has been running the MastaBata Kote-Kote campaign to support the government’s efforts to promote a cashless economy. He said the bank has been running the competition for the fourth year in a row since it was started to encourage its customers to use MasterCard and QR cards. NMB bank recently awarded, Mr Emmanuel Marumbo with a motorcycle after emerging as a winner in the use of its MasterCard and QR cards in points of sale. Hailing from Tabora Region, Mr Marumbo was spotted in the eighth draw of the competition held last week in Tanga Region and Friday handed over the prize by NMB Western Zone Marketing Manager, Trifon Malkiory. In addition, the draw has found 75 other winners who were awarded 100,000/- each. Elaborating, he noted that NMB runs the competition as a way of plough back of its profits to its customers, where the winners also bag various prizes including cash, motorbikes and a trip to Dubai for four days. “Let me also remind you more than 300m/- will be given as a prize to 854 winners, and the campaign is running within ten weeks and every week 75 winners receive an amount of 100,000/- and an overall takes a motorcycle,” he said. He has asked the bank’s customers to continue using their NMB Master Card, not only for withdrawing money from ATM machines but also for various uses so that they can win various prizes through the competition. “Our customers can make a QR scan payment by paying in hand at restaurants, supermarkets, gas stations, but also at leisure places and even order various products online,” said Malkiory. Speaking immediately after being presented with the prize of a motorcycle as the winner of last week’s draw, Mr Marumbo said at first he did not believe that he had won the prize despite sharing it with his colleagues. He has said that he has been a person who uses his bank card for the purchase of various things, noting that he does not walk with cash but makes purchases using his card. He thanked the NMB bank for the award and noted that it will help him in his daily business activities, as he has found transportation to make his work easier. Equally, he asked NMB customers to set up a procedure for making various payments using bank cards, as doing so is more secure for money but also NMB through its competition offers various prizes.