ZANZIBAR Fisheries Company (ZAFICO) has started building a fish processing plant in Unguja North coastal area of Fungurefu-Mkokotoni that would result in creating at least 450 direct jobs and also boost the Isles economy. This comes after ZAFICO terminated the agreement with Sri Lanka’s firm- ‘Hairu Group of Companies (HGC)’ after learning that the investor had no funds for the project. “It is unfortunate that the Hairu Company had no funds for the project. We have decided to terminate the agreement and directed ZAFICO to begin implementing it alone as we look for another potential investor,” Zanzibar President Hussein Ali Mwinyi said in response to questions from Journalists as to why the project has been delayed. He said the project will continue as planned and already ZAFICO is proceeding and that people should expect the fishing processing factory to be in place in the near future, along with promoting fishing in the deep sea where it is still unexploited. The ZAFICO is operating under the Ministry of Blue Economy and Fisheries, and its Minister Suleiman Masoud Makame said the project is among the highlights in the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) 2020/2025 election manifesto. During the signing ceremony at the Ministry, Maisara area in the city, the Minister said President Mwinyi has been working tirelessly to find ways to develop the blue economy to achieve a strong economy in future. The Minister said that the success of this project will boost the economy of Zanzibar and upgrade the livelihood of the people of Zanzibar, particularly the fishers who sell their fish, ‘I urge people and other respective institutions to support the project to achieve our goal’. The project was earlier planned to include the establishment of a leading boat building facility, equipped to manufacture 6 to 30 metres boats in fibreglass and steel, serving various functions including fisheries, transport, patrol, leisure, luxury, research and mooring.” It was explained that as a major component of this project, the boat building and maintenance services would be the backbone of the Blue Economy and fisheries sector in the country, and also serve tourism, maritime affairs, maritime security, maritime transport and research sectors. The project workforce of Zanzibar would be trained in Sri Lanka and locally to develop the technical and professional skills required for boat building and maintenance, “To begin with, six people from Zanzibar were to be trained in Sri Lanka.” Zanzibar government is determined to have the project implemented as it is a value addition of fish, including Fresh and frozen fish processing factory; Fish canning factory; Dry fish factory; Anchovies processing factory; Fish oil and Fish meal plant; and Technical Training Centre and other supporting facilities. The establishment of cold room and ice production facilities for fish storage is another part of the huge project, to be used at various temperatures and other food storage including vegetable, medicine and substance storage.