PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has been hailed for creating an investor-friendly environment that allows businesses to expand consequently, growing the employment ecosystem in the country. This was said by Vivo Energy Tanzania’s Managing Director, Ms Khady Sene in Dar es Salaam as her company signed a partnership deal with Dough Works Limited to open the fifth BAO Café at Masaki service station. She said the new endeavour has created over 35 employment opportunities for the local community; another success story of how international and national economic actors can collaborate to benefit Tanzanians. On his part, the company’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Stan Mittelman said that Vivo Energy, an intentional brand is determined to make a meaningful and lasting impact on the communities in which it operates. “For us, this is beyond doing business. Our role is to do things in the right way, realising the full potential of our people and business partners and creating a benchmark for quality, excellence, safety and responsibility in Africa, along with our ESG and sustainability activities,” he said. Vivo Energy’s Executive Vice-President of Maghreb & Indian Ocean Mr George Roberts said, “The growth agenda is in our DNA this is another partnership of the many more to come. “We are looking forward to creating opportunities for the vibrant youth of this exciting continent,” he said. In his welcome remarks, Managing Director for Dough Works Limited Vikram Desai expressed his optimism over the deal saying it guarantees more employment and growth opportunities for women and men in Tanzania. He mentioned key beneficiaries as local vendors and suppliers, alongside developing exceptional service experiences for customers. “We are excited to have partnered with Vivo Energy, an agile, fast-growing brand in Tanzania, in our journey towards Café & Convenience innovation and excellence. “We welcome the community in the surrounding areas to visit their new local BAO Café and experience first-hand all that it has to offer,” he said.