About 130 top golfers from across the country are set to battle for supremacy in this year’s Waitara Golf Tournament, thanks to the continued support from Serengeti Breweries Limited through its number One Blended Scotch whisky in the world, Johnnie Walker. The one-day contest, popularly dubbed, ‘Johnnie Walker Waitara Golf Tournament 2023’, kicked off at the Lugalo Golf Course in Dar es Salaam last Saturday and will end up with a dinner Gala where the winners will be awarded their Trophies. This is the third time JW is sponsoring the tournament. During Waitara Tournament, SBL’s Head of Marketing- Spirit, Ms Irene Mutiganzi said Johnnie Walker’s support towards the competition was aimed at promoting the development of the golf game in the county. “SBL, through its world-class-whisky Johnnie Walker, is proud to be the main sponsor of this year’s Waitara Golf Tournament. Our support to this tournament demonstrates our solid commitment to supporting the development of sports in the country,” Irene said. She further noted that the Waitara Golf Tournament has been running annually since 2006, effectively making it one of the longest golf championships in Tanzania, Serengeti breweries and Johnnie Walker, therefore, is very privileged to be associated with this great tournament and to partner with a golf clubs that boasts a very proud history. “With over 200 years of existence as the number 1 Blended whisky globally, we are proud to have walked the journey of resilience and commitment to quality,” she explained. Johnnie Walker Blended Scotch Whisky is one of the first truly global brands. The Johnnie Walker portfolio features 5 award-winning whiskies namely; Red Label, Black Label, Green Label, Gold Label, and Blue Label each with its distinct personality, history, and a story to tell. “These labels are not simply whiskies in bottles but blends of quality Scotch top whiskeys of sometimes up to 46 different types as is the case of Johnnie Walker Black Label, matured over years to guarantee the rich flavors, aroma and taste that leaves your palate satisfied and your senses teased,” she said. We have continually ensured high standards of quality, commitment, and innovations to keep walking the same path that began over 200 years ago in a village in Scotland. Our vast range of Whisky Offerings is easily enjoyable with any type of mixer on any occasion. Be it a night out with friends, a dinner gala, a wedding celebration, or even an adult’s birthday party! SBL is also the main sponsor of the Tanzanian men’s national soccer team, Taifa Stars through its multiple-award-winning beer brand, Serengeti Premium Lager. It too made history in 2018 by becoming the first company ever to sponsor Tanzania’s national women’s premier league, courtesy of its Super brands-winning light beer, Serengeti Premium Lite. Speaking at the Waitara Tournament event, The Lugalo Golf Club representative Major General Ibrahim Michael Mhona expressed his appreciation to SBL for the shot-in-the-arm and urged other companies and organizations to come forward and support the growth of golf in the country. “We are very grateful for SBL’s consistent support of golf and other sports in the country. We are particularly happy to note that the beer maker has now become the biggest supporter of this tournament. I urge young people to take interest in the golf game and squash the old narrative that , “Golf is the old and rich” Major General Ibrahim Michael Mhona The Waitara Golf Tournament is held every year and its main objective is to Hon. General (rtd) George Waitara’s contribution to the sports sector in Tanzania by initiating the golf course at the Lugalo Golf Club. Major Japhet Brown Masai, Lugalo Golf Club captain, congratulated the Hon. General (rtd) George Waitara for his contribution to the sports sector in Tanzania by initiating the golf course at the Lugalo Golf Club. He continues speaking “I would like to congratulate SBL Our Main Sponsor for Continue supporting the Waitara Tournament through its number One Blended Scotch whisky in the world, Johnnie Walker for the past three years. Achieving this magnificent milestone in the sports sector as it enhances the magnitude of benefits across the entire Sports Industries”.