MORE than 500 youth from around the world are expected to take part in the International Conference on Youth and Climate Change 2023 to be held in the country later this year. The conference has been organised in by the Tanzania Forest Service Agency (TFS) in collaboration with and the Global Youth Leadership Center (GYLC) of the United States, which will have 200 participants, will come from more than 50 countries who will take part   in the meeting through online. The conference organiser and GYLC Director Ejaj Ahamad said that the meeting scheduled for October this year will be for three day at the University of Dar es Salaam. “During the conference, the first day will involve a session, while the second and third days will involve various activities aimed at demonstrating in practice the efforts to deal with the effects of climate change, such as planting trees and visiting some tourist attractions. “This conference was held last year in India, but this year I have decided to hold it in Tanzania after being impressed by the conservation efforts I learned about through the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP27) held in Egypt last year,” said Ahmad. He added that, he is in the country for preparations where he will use his presence to meet with various stakeholders including the University of Dar es Salaam and the Office of the Vice President (Union and Environment). On his part, TFS Conservation Commissioner Prof Dos Santos Silayo said that Tanzania will host the conference for the first time. He said the summit will help to strengthen conservation activities, promoting tourism sector, especially in protected areas and promoting businesses due to the large gathering of people from other countries. “After the meeting, we will prepare programmes that will enable participants to visit various tourist attractions in the country,” he said. “We are very grateful to the University of Dar es Salaam because it is with us in ensuring that we can have good preparations for this conference. The conference aims at discussing the issues based on climate change which is very important because it helps to bring positive changes in the country.