TRADE volume between Tanzania and France increased by 40.6 per cent in the past year, due to strengthened bilateral relations advocated by President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s bold initiative of opening up the country. In the past year, trade in goods between the two countries reached 241.5 million US dollars (about 563bn/-), from 171.7 million US dollars (about 400bn/-) before the year 2021. Ambassador of Tanzania to France, Dr Samwel Shelukindo revealed in an exclusive interview with the ‘Daily News’ recently indicating more remarkable performance registered on exports from Tanzania to France which recorded a 116 per cent growth between the two years. “Exported goods worth 18.7 million US dollars in 2021 to 40.5 million US dollars were recorded last year, as compared to imports which grew by 31.4 per cent from 153.0 million US dollars to 241.5 million US dollars, during the afore-mentioned period,” said Dr Shelukindo, who is also accredited to Spain, Portugal, Tunisia, Morocco and to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). Amb Dr Shelukindo attributes this impressive outcome to the ongoing efforts aimed at promoting economic diplomacy and opening the country for more trade and investment, being led by President Samia, who visited Paris in February 2022. During the visit to France, the President held a meeting with members of the French Business Community and invited them to visit Tanzania to explore opportunities for Investment and Trade. According to him, the meeting also paved the way for a high-level French business delegation (MEDEF) composed of more than 60 mega companies from different sectors, including automakers Peugeot and Renault, Air Bus, Thales, TOTAL and Bouygues Construction which visited Tanzania in May 2022. Besides, a number of agreements were signed between Tanzania and the France including an agreement on improving access to agricultural financing between French Development Agency (AFD) and Tanzania; Agreement on improving access to agricultural financing between French Development Agency (AFD) and Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) and Agreement for the Implementation of Phase 5 of the Bus Rapid Transit. Others are a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Tanzania Airports Authority and Bouygues Batiment International for conducting a Feasibility Study for the Rehabilitation of Terminal II at Julius Nyerere International Airport; Framework Agreement Between France and Tanzania concerning the financing and Development and Implementation of Priority Strategic Projects Declaration of Intent Between the President of France and the Tanzania President relating to cooperation in the area of the Blue Economy and Maritime Safety. Another in line is a Declaration of Intent between the President of the French Republic and the President of Tanzania regarding Cooperation in Transport Infrastructure and Sustainable Development in Tanzania. The Tanzanian envoy among other things outlined achievement in tourism sector, thanks President Samia’s Royal Tour that heightened the promotion of Tanzania as tourism and investments destination. Following this, the Tanzanian Embassy in France introduced to the French tour operators, travel agents and the public in July last year translating the materials in French language hence it was widely celebrated. “Such has contributed to France becoming a number one source for international tourists to Tanzania amid the aftermath of Covid-19, registering a total of 52,000 visitors to Tanzania in 2022, for the first time overtaking the USA which traditionally had been holding the number one slot for years,” he noted. In line to this, he noted that the launching of direct Air France flights between Paris and Abeid Amani Karume International airport Zanzibar in October 2021 also led to the achievement which has also strengthened people – to – people exchange between the two countries. Another key contributing factor towards the recorded tourism strengthening is the traditional promotion partnership between public and private Tanzania’s tourism stakeholders in the French market. “In August 2022, French major tourist exhibition, IFTM Top Resa in Paris, witnessed an important participation by Tanzanian tourist and hospitality companies, and in November 2022, the ‘My Tanzania Roadshow’ attracted a big number of French buyers of Tanzanian destination” explained Amb Shelukindo. The Embassy had also been at the forefront in the preparation and hosting of the 65th United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) Commission for Africa (CAF), held from October 5 – 8, 2022, that welcomed Ministers of Tourism and other stakeholders from over 30 African countries. In addition, official visits by other top leaders from Tanzania in other areas of accreditation had a positive impact on its socio-economic positioning. The Ambassador specified the visits as that by Vice-President Dr Philip Mpango in Portugal in June 2022 and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa in Tunisia, in August 2022, respectively. Similarly, the visit to Lisbon by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Dr Stergomena Tax in October last year, has been crucial and culminated in the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Tanzania and Portugal on the establishment of the Diplomatic Consultations Framework. During the visit, Dr Tax also had an opportunity to hold a meeting with the representatives of the Portuguese Business Community. Amb Shelukindo on top of that projected the year 2023 to be more successful in promoting Tanzania for trade and investment, as a tourists’ destination, and heightened bilateral and multilateral ties in France and in other areas of accreditation.