THE Director General (DG) of the Zanzibar Anti-corruption and Economic Crime Authority (ZAECA), Mr Ali Abdalla Ali, has unveiled quarterly performance report of the authority that shows achievements in the anti-graft campaign. The DG informed journalists that the authority’s performance in the past four months has improved, thanks to reforms undertaken by President Hussein Ali Mwinyi. “We   are getting full support from the President and our laws are very clear … that is why our performance in the past quarter of the year has been impressive,” Mr Ali said, adding that President Mwinyi has worked hard to address the challenges which were previously facing the authority. Mr Ali explained that ZAECA staffs have no any serious obstacle in relation to execution of their responsibilities. “We are free in conducting our duties as per laws and regulations. We are free to summon any person … since I took over as DG none of the leaders has interfered with our duties including holding suspects accountable,” he said. Mr Ali mentioned some of the success in the past four months including working on the recommendations indicated in the 2020/21 Controller and Auditor General (CAG) report. The CAG report indicated that more than 4.6bn/= was not accounted for, by various government entities during the period under review. “We investigated some of the public offices implicated in the reports such as regional governments and parastatals in which 238 corruption allegations were compiled,” he noted. The director said that of 238 allegations 168 are still under investigation, six have been transferred to other organs, 19 cases were classified for counseling, 45 for legal counseling, and 18 were forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). He mentioned that 14 allegations involving 36 suspected public servants have been filed for court proceedings under DPP and that 12 suspects among them are in custody because their charges fall under non bailable offences, “We managed to seize and rescue more than 3.5bn/- and we also inspected the expenditure of funds (value for money) in the ongoing development projects.” According to the DG, ZAECA officers, monitored the recent Mapinduzi Cup tournament, cloves buying, revenue collection at seaports, delivery of services in public offices, along with increasing anti corruption awareness among the public and schools. He said ZAECA continues to undertake the same programmes that include training, sensitisations and monitoring of funds allocations and use in all public offices and monitoring e-payments systems in the government. Mr Ali added that, plans are underway to extend monitoring to Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) aimed at ensuring funds injected to NGOs are properly utilised. He further said that, ZAECA has strengthened collaboration with Police, DPP and Judiciary sand anti-drugs bureau to improve and maintain efficiency in anti-corruption campaign. ZAECA boss appealed to members of the public to share any information through free toll number 113 that will enable the arrest or intercept dubious deals.