MUHIMBILI National Hospital (MNH) – Mloganzila branch has embarked on a four-day special clinic for people with overweight and obesity. The clinic involves Intragastric Balloon Placement on the stomach wall. Intragastric balloon placement is a weight-loss procedure that involves placing a saline-filled silicone balloon in one’s stomach. This helps one to lose weight by limiting the amount of food consumed, making one to feel fuller faster. According to MNH’s Deputy Executive Director Dr Julieth Magandi, the four-day campaign which started last Friday will conclude today. It is expected that during the clinic days about 27 needy patients would have been placed with the intragastric balloon in their stomachs to enable them lose weight which makes them prone to Noncommunicable Diseases (NCDs). “This special clinic is composed of multidisciplinary medical specialists who are there to examine patients and satisfy themselves if one deserves such a medication and to assure that all important medical recommendations are carefully considered before moving a step ahead,” said Dr Magandi. She stated this when addressing a press conference during the clinic launch on Friday afternoon at the hospital located in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam Region. According to MNH’s Deputy Executive Director, the four-day clinic campaign was the result of high demand the country’s referral health facility has been experiencing since the commencement of Intragastric balloon placement service in November last year. “So far, more than 100 patients have been successfully placed with intragastric balloons to control excessive weight and they are doing well. MNH is now well prepared to receive both local and foreign patients in a move to spearhead medical tourism,” she highlighted. Speaking about the cost of the service, Dr Magandi said one patient may pay up to 4m/- which is more cheaper comparing to the cost charged abroad where they would pay more than 20m/-. On his part, MNH’s Specialist Surgeon, Erick Kimaro, said such service has already attracted needy people from neighbouring countries like Kenya and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).