DAR ES SALAAM giants; Simba and Young Africans have concluded the mini-transfer window on the sound note after parading two foreign imports apiece to energise their squads. The Msimbazi Street Reds have roped in striker Jean Baleke from the Democratic Republic of Congo and Burkinabe midfielder Hamed Sawadogo ready to render their services to the club. Likewise, their traditional rivals Yanga have accomplished two deals involving Zambian striker Kennedy Musonda and Malian centre-back Mamadou Doumbia who are also targeting to help in pushing their team to the Promised Land. These four signings are the ones that heralded the concluded transfer window with the two oldest clubs in the country crossing the boundaries to pick the nice ingredients they want. The mini-transfer window doors were officially shut down on Sunday midnight meaning that any transfer deals to be conducted afterward will be deemed incomplete. Yanga have also been reunited with their former goalkeeper Metacha Mnata until the end of the season as a brief replacement for Abutwalib Mshery who is nursing injury. Before rejoining the club, Metacha was parading at Singida Big Stars as their first-choice shot-stopper. He joined Singida after briefly serving Polisi Tanzania and has already expressed his excitement for the return. Most clubs have cherished domestic transfers in order to bolster their squads as the season slowly nears to its finishing line. Singida Big Stars, Polisi Tanzania, and Coastal Union are among the Premier League sides which were busy in the ended transfer market and have reshaped their squads with new signings. Despite being seen as a complete side, the Singida-based club has executed nine deals as they eye to cement further their team. On the other hand, Polisi Tanzania have sealed seven deals which they believe will help them to escape relegation jaws as they are not fully safe on the log. Also, Coastal Union cherish six new signings as the Tanga-based outfits intensify efforts to strengthen further their side. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has  described the just-ended mini-transfer window as very successful saying most of the teams engaged in the exercise  accomplished it  timely. The federation’s Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo made the statement yesterday in Dar es Salaam as he praised clubs for perfectly conducting the registration exercise. “Everything has been done smoothly even though we received a few calls from various clubs wishing our guidance to enable them to fulfill their deals. “As a federation, we were providing the necessary support to them and so far, I can say that the exercise has been completed without a hitch which is a big achievement to us,” he said. Adding, he said even the clubs which were finalising their transfers on the deadline managed to seal them at ease. “As you know, the mini-transfer window is there for clubs to make minor adjustments in their squads that is why not every club goes on the market. “For those with no reasons to seek new blood, they were not active at all because it is not mandatory to bring on board fresh legs during the mini-transfer exercise,” he noted.