TWO weeks after schools re – opening for new academic year, only 55.6 per cent of students selected for secondary education have reported to schools they have been selected to join in Rukwa Region. The Rukwa Regional Education Officer (REO), Mr Samson Hango told reporters on the sideline of the meeting dubbed ‘Shule Bora’, Quality Learning for All Children programme held in Namanyere Township in Nkasi District yesterday that 25,371 students had excelled in Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) last year. The one day meeting, which was opened by the Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Mr Rashid Mchata, was attended by regional based media managers, editors and journalists. Shule Bora is a six year (2022- 2027) government project funded by UK Aid at the cost of 271bn/-, is implemented in nine regions of Kigoma, Katavi, Rukwa, Mara, Simiyu, Singida, Dodoma, Tanga and Coast Region. It is anticipated that Shule Bora project will deliver improved quality, inclusiveness and safety of learning for boys and girls. “The region projected to enroll 42,666 pupils in pre-primary schools and so far 88.64 per cent of them have been registered, while in standard one 94.6 per cent of projected 46,039 pupils have been enrolled,” added the REO. In the same vein Mr Hango said they have called upon local government leadership from street, village, ward and district levels to continue making a close follow up on children who are yet to report to schools. He insisted that the students must start classes as soon as possible. “All students should report to schools they have been selected to report as no any of one will be left on the path side because there plenty of classrooms constructed to accommodate all of them,” emphasized the REO. During the programme awareness meeting several subjects were presented including Shule Bora programme overview, programme achievements and focus, communication and media engagement approaches in delivering programme objectives and government media engagement. Also there was a discussion on media role in enhancing visibility and publicity opportunities and building effective working relations, media expectations and regional work plan.