FORMER President Jakaya Kikwete has called upon local and foreign investors to take advantage of the improved investment climate in Zanzibar and invest in various sectors in Pemba to spur economic development. Dr Kikwete said that the Zanzibar government has worked hard to ensure that investors operate in smooth environment. He said the reforms undertaken by the isles government under the administration of President Hussein Mwinyi have made Zanzibar a better place for investment. Dr Kikwete made the remarks yesterday during the inauguration of mineral water factory at Kinyikani area, Wete District in North Pemba. “To date Pemba is not the same as yesterday, in fact Dr Hussein Mwinyi is doing a lot to open up the Island…in two years of his leadership, and he has initiated the construction of two drinking water factories and definitely, the efforts are the results of the 1964 Revolution that we should be very proud of,” said the fourth phase president. Dr Kikwete further said, “I met a young man who told me that he plans to invest in a project worth USD 460 million, so it is obvious that the island is safe and peaceful, otherwise people could not show interest  to invest here. I urge citizens to continue maintaining peace because it is prerequisite to economic growth.” The Zanzibar Minister of Trade and Industrial Development Mr Omar Said Shaaban said, among the government’s priorities is to promote the industrial sector, adding that his office has been striving to create a conducive environment for the industrial  growth as it contributes significantly to economic development.” “We thank the Ministry responsible for investments, for its efforts to allocate areas of investment. We collaborate to ensure all the investors’ needs are met,” the Minister said. The Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry Mr Ali Khamis Juma said, the drinking water factory has created a number of job opportunities. On her part, Regional Commissioner (RC) for North Pemba Ms Salama Mbarouk Khatib, pledged to cooperate with investors to increase production for the national interest. “The country has many areas for investment so the doors are open. I urge local people to continue honouring the revolution by maintaining peace and stability, as key to development.” General Manager of Water Com Company Limited Mr Abubakar Faraj said that more than 1.2bn/- has been spent on the project which created 17 direct jobs and 500 indirect ones, adding: “This factory is one of the results of the Revolution because it contributes to economic growth.” He mentioned some of the challenges facing  the factory as electricity fluctuation, which leads to machine collapse, and difficulties in shipping their products.