AIR France-KLM has officially apologised to the government of Tanzania, following the unfounded and baseless claims they issued on Friday, indicating that the country is embroiled in civil unrest. Minister for Works and Transport Prof Makame Mbarawa said in a statement released to the media yesterday that the ministry had received an official apology from Air France-KLM Country Manager, Tanzania, Mr Alexander Van de Wint. The latest development was in response to the ministry’s statement issued on Saturday regarding the unfounded and baseless claims of civil unrest in the United Republic of Tanzania by the KLM Royal Dutch airline. The statement was made available on KLM website on Friday (January 27 this year) when communicating the cancellation of flights scheduled to arrive at Julius Nyerere International Airport and Kilimanjaro International Airport. Along with the formal apology, KLM informed the Minister that its flights to Zanzibar have resumed with immediate effect, while flights to Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro (KL515 AMS-ZNZ-DAR-AMS) will resume today. Minister Mbarawa thanked and appreciated all the aviation stakeholders, who disregarded the unfounded and baseless claims and continued with their operations. The ministry has also reiterated its assurance to the general public and stakeholders that the aviation industry in the country is safe, secure, and attains the highest international standards. Earlier yesterday, Zanzibar government had assured its visitors, travel agents, tour operators, and other trade professionals that Zanzibar is safe. In the statement issued by the Zanzibar Minister for Tourism and Heritage, Simai Mohammed Said confirmed that there is no unrest in Isles and assured that Zanzibar continues to be calm, with fine weather, and that both local Zanzibaris and tourists are going about their business as usual. Simai said the ministry welcomes visitors with the assurance that Zanzibar continues to be a safe and secure destination. His remarks emerged as an addition to the statement issued by the government that dismissed false claims being spread by some foreign institutions and companies that there is civil unrest in Tanzania. “The government of Tanzania has noted with great concern the false claims being spread by some foreign institutions and companies that there is civil unrest in Tanzania,” reads part of the statement issued by the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology. The government assured all embassies, international organisations, companies, institutions, foreigners and the general public that Tanzania territory is safe and there is no civil unrest or terrorist threats. “Our agencies remain vigilant to ensure the safety and protection of individuals and their property…. we are cooperating with our partner states to interdict any security threat,” read part of the statement. The Ministry of Works and Transport also dismissed as baseless, alarmist, unfounded, inconsiderate and insensitive the publication of the statement regarding civil unrest in Tanzania. Minister for Works and Transport Prof Makame Mbarawa said that the statement has caused unnecessary fear and panic to the general public and aviation industry at large. He urged the public to ignore the statement. Prof Mbarawa said as of to –date (Saturday) there is no recorded civil unrest within the territory of Tanzania which impairs aviation operations within the country. He informed the public and international community that operations at JNIA and KIA are ongoing. The minister said on January 27 at JNIA 17 out of 18 international scheduled flights with 2,545 passengers were facilitated while at KIA five international flights with 823 passengers were facilitated.  Until 3:15 pm yesterday 12 international scheduled flights at JNIA were facilitated. He said his office continues to ensure that aviation industry is safe and secure in Tanzania as per national and international standards. The government statement came just a few days after the Police Force in the country allayed fears over possible terrorist attacks, insisting the country was safe. The Force issued a statement on Thursday (January 26, 2023) after the USA Embassy in the country issued a security alert on Wednesday, advising USA citizens and other citizens in Dar es Salaam and elsewhere in the country to take precaution. However, Police Spokesperson, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) David Misime on Thursday assured the public of their safety and urged them to remain calm and continue with their daily businesses. On Wednesday the US Embassy in Dar es Salaam warned that: “Terrorist groups could attack with little or no warning targeting hotels, embassies, restaurants, malls and markets, police stations, mosques and other frequented places by Westerners.”  But the Tanzania Police Force assured the public that the country was safe.