AFTER successfully luring Oscar award-winning actress Lupita Nyong’o for a daredevil diving experience at Forodhani waterfront last year, the Zanzibar high-divers are at it again. This time, the high-diving stuntmen have challenged Will Smith, another Hollywood actor for the experience, and the latter has dully accepted. Earlier this week, the divers who have earned global fame for their stunts, held the American actor’s portrait as they went dived into their favorite spot. In a post that has since gone viral, the online sensation stunts men can be seen displaying the actor’s portrait art piece before showing off their acrobatic skills. As luck would have it, the high divers clad in BatMan, Spider-Man and Captain America superhero gear amazed the actor who shared the video on his Instagram. ” WOOOOOWWW … Thank You! Thank You!! That is Gorgeous. I’m on my way”, read the captioned post on the Hollywood’s star social media account. The quick response by the American actor was swiftly greeted by chief government spokesperson, Mr Gerson Msigwa, who quickly introduced the group to Will Smith who is famed for his multiple accolades, including an Academy Award, a British Academy Film Award and four Grammy Awards. ” You are welcome, Smith. We can’t wait to see you in Zanzibar. This show is called Makachu. We promise you much more. Karibu sana”, Mr Msigwa wrote. The Makachu Zanzibar Fun Divers are said quickly transforming Zanzibar as a skill and amusement centre. The bliss of their diving prowess and innovative ways to keep guests entertained. by Statista indicates that Zanzibar hosted 394,185 guests in 2021, from 260,244 in 2020. Just before the Covid-19 pandemic hit, Zanzibar hosted 538,264 guests in 2019. Should he honor his promise, it will be the third time the Hollywood star visits Tanzania. The American actor, producer and rapper has once visited Zanzibar and the Serengeti National Park and hasn’t shied away from sharing with his global followers the beauty of Tanzania. Accompanied with his wife Jada Pinkett Smith, the actor interacted with excited fans after his arrival at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA).