NAMUNGO advanced to Mapinduzi Cup’s semis after a hard-fought 1-0 win over Aigle Noir of Burundi here at Amaan Stadium on Friday. Namungo have joined Azam and Mlandege who were the first to qualify after flooring giants Simba at the same venue. It was the second time for Namungo to play in the tournament’s semifinal stage after doing it last year when they played as debutants. Azam had the flamboyant performance in their last group stage game with a hefty 3-0 win over Jamhuri of Pemba at the same venue on Thursday. It was Abdul Suleiman Sopu who steered Azam to semis after his brace orchestrated the team’s 3-0 victory. The player who steered Namungo to semis was Hassan Kabunda who netted the winner in the 61st minute. The semifinal matches will kick off on January 8th and 9th this year. In their group D matches, Namungo began their campaign with a 0-0 draw with Chipukizi who also drew 1-1 in their game against Aigle Noir. But yesterday’s game saw Aigle Noir knocking the Namungo’s door, Kelvin Bizimana’s shot ended in the hands of goalie Lucas Chembeja. In the 13th minute, Bizimana tried again with the header but  Namungo’s goalie Chembeja stretched up to catch the ball. Aigle Noir’s Asman Ndimumana was shown a yellow card for a poor challenge on Hassan Kabunda. In the 21st minute, Namungo’ s Pius Buswita  attempted a shot from outside the box, but it deflected on Aigle Noir defenders and became a fruitless corner. In the 22nd minute, Shiza Kichuya freekick a few metres from the box, went off target. Aigle Noir another attempt saw Abdi Ineza’s shot fly just over the cross bar. In the 29th minute, Namungo’s Manuel Asante’s shot hit the post. In the 34th minute, Seudou Blandji saw his freekick hit Namungo’s defenders before they cleared it. The teams finished the first half in a barren draw. In 53th minute Aigle Noir were reduced to ten men after Chris Ngabo Mbede was shown a red card for indiscipline. It was in the 61st minute when Namungo got their winner through Kabunda who shot from outside the box. The goal inspired some more attacks from Namungo but their attackers Kichuya and Buswita were not sharp to convert the chances into goals in the 67th, 70th and 72nd minutes. Namungo will play their tournament’s semifinal game against Mlandege this Sunday.