TANZANIA is set to become the centre of e-commerce in the East and Central Africa region through continued efforts on improving infrastructure and investments in all areas related to digital business. This was revealed by the Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology, Mr Nape Nnauye on the occasion to mark 43rd anniversary of the Pan African Postal Union (PAPU DAY) in Dodoma yesterday. Minister Nnauye extended his profound congratulations to the PAPU for marking the 43rd anniversary, especially at this digital age that has transformed Africa’s economies. The theme of this year’s celebrations is, (“The Post: An established promoter of cross border e-commerce in Africa“). Minister Nape said the theme emphasises the postal sector rightful role of being a key socio-economic stimulator, while also expressing that Tanzania is keeping pace with the rest of the world in embracing digital transformation. He said, in responding to the worldwide digital transformation, Tanzania has developed policy, legal and regulatory frameworks that intend to promote e-commerce in the country and with others in the continent. They include promoting infrastructure development and a conducive environment for the entire e-commerce value chain through licensing; introducing policies supportive of e-commerce, such as the National ICT Policy of 2016, enacting the Electronic Transactions Act of 2015, which was reviewed in 2022 and the Personal Data Protection Act of 2022. Minister Nape said the aim was to incorporate safeguards that address issues of trust which is vital in e-commerce. “We are confident that the resulting exponential increase in subscriptions to services such as the internet and mobile money in Tanzania in recent years will promote e-commerce. We are similarly pleased to report that our country has resolved most of the barriers hindering e-commerce,” he said. Elaborating, Minister Nnauye said that under the leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan, the government has also introduced and consolidating a national physical addresses and postcode system, which guide postal operators in delivering goods, procured electronically. He also said that according to the emphasis given in the ‘Digital Transformation Strategy for Africa (2020-2030)’, Tanzania will use the opportunity of a common digital market whereby by 2030 there will be no borders for people, goods, services and business capital. He added that while Tanzania joins other African countries to celebrate the 43 years of the Pan African Postal Union (PAPU), Tanzania is confident that the postal services will make it possible to transform Africa digitally as intended in the Declaration of the African Union (2020-2030). “This declaration is key to unlocking and transforming Africa,” he said. The blueprint and master plan that will guide a common, coordinated digitalisation agenda to enhance synergies among a wide range of implementing partners and avoid duplication of effort and optimise utilisation of the available limited resources Also, he expressed that President Samia has been at the forefront in supporting the construction of the PAPU headquarters building in Arusha; which upon completion, it will increase the Union’s efficiency in providing postal services in Africa. For his side, Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) Dr Jabir Bakari urged post to create a conducive environment to enhance the cross-border business that has been mushrooming in Africa in recent years. Dr Bakari said TCRA is ready to collaborate with all stakeholders at improving such environment, so as to benefit from the advantage of doing digital business. Speaking on behalf of the postmaster general, Dodoma Regional Post Manager Ferdinand Kabyemerwa said the Tanzania Post Corporation has come up with various strategic stages of improving the service. On his side, PAPU Secretary General Dr Sifundo Chief Moyo commended the good work done by the Tanzania government at creating and enabling the environment for the e-commerce business to flourish.