TANZANIA Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) is determined to throw weight behind quality of communication services to ensure efficiency in the sector. The regulator’s Director General Dr Jabiri Bakari, made the revelation on Friday at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School (MJNLS) in Coast region, during a session designed to boost work capacity of the authority employees as new year begins. Dr Jabiri urged the staff to stay on top of the implementation of this year’s strategic plans to ensure that the telecom, postal and broadcasting sectors are strategically managed and all players are well governed. “After completing this seminar, we want you to continue to work hard to ensure that the regulated sector thrives in accordance with predetermined goals,” he said. “I understand that we are intimately familiar with all of our customers that we serve”. This round let’s achieve more miles and make the sector even better,” he insisted, highlighting the significance of enhancing the agency’s assessment of service quality that service providers render to wananchi. Dr Jabiri emphasised that, as a first step in ensuring the quality of communication services is well maintained and regulated, the authority shall deactivate all active sim cards that have not been verified using the National ID number by end of this month. The principal of the leadership school, Professor Prof Marcellina Chijoriga, praised the good work that TCRA has been doing in the country by regulating communication services and reminded seminar attendees that, training is a crucial element in any organisation if it is to maximise potential and achieve the desired outcome. “I thank TCRA management for organising this session because, as I often tell my students, you cannot experience growth in this contemporary world that changes so rapidly if you do not update your knowledge and renew what you know,” she emphasized. TCRA conducts a quarterly joint service quality evaluation; a task that the regulatory chief executive has pledged will be relentlessly pursued this year, to ensure that Internet service providers (ISPs), telecommunications companies (telcos), broadcasting, and the entire communication sector meet quality criteria. The agency regulates the country’s electronic and postal communications, as well as managing spectrums. TCRA also allocates spectrums in accordance with International Telecommunication Union (ITU) regulations.