IT was a splendid evening for Mtibwa Sugar, Green Warriors and JKT Tanzania after the trio qualified for the round of 16 of the Azam Sports Federation Cup yesterday. The opening matches of the round of 32 saw Mtibwa Sugar seeing off Buhaya FC with hefty 4-0 win at Manungu Stadium whereas Green Warriors beat Mbuni of Arusha 2-1 at Uhuru Stadium in Dar e Salaam. But, JKT Tanzania who eliminated Polisi Tanzania  had to rely  on penalty shootouts to advance on 5-4  after stamping a 1-1 draw at the end of  90-minute showdown. The victories earned Mtibwa Sugar, Green Warriors and JKT Tanzania a place in the round of 16 as the Azam Sports Federation Cup continues today. Meanwhile, Simba and Coastal Union lock horns today in one of the six matches lined up for the third round of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) today. The Msimbazi Street Reds who host the game at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam are keen to maintain their stellar performance in the contest. To reach this far, they punished Eagle FC 8-0 at the same venue making it one of the biggest victories recorded in the 2nd round as they eye to replicate the same feat. The recovery of Simba’s trio Moses Phiri, Peter Banda and Henock Inonga has spiced up the already win-hungry squad which is curious to win most of their competitive encounters. For Coastal Union, they hammered Tanga Middle 3-1 at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga and are also targeting to cruise further knowing in advance that a victory against Simba is crucial to achieve that. Elsewhere today, Singida Big Stars interface Ruvu Shooting at Liti Stadium in Singida, KMC take on Copco FC at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, New Dundee versus African Sports at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma, Geita Gold welcome Nzega United at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita. Then at Majimaji Stadium in Ruvuma, Mbeya Kwanza go head to head against Mbeya City in a seemingly competitive match as the two sides know each other well having met in the Premier League before the former faced the relegation wrath. Tomorrow, four encounters will be staged to seal the round of 32 clashes when holders Young Africans play Rhino Rangers at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city. Also, Namungo interface Ihefu at Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi, Kagera Sugar host Kengold at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera whereas Mashujaa play Tanzania Prisons at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam.