RANDOM use of ‘laxative’ types of drugs for constipation problems violates the digestion system. The use should be the last option, since there are lots of traditional ways to solve the problems, Assistant Nursing Officer at Sekou Toure Mwanza Regional Hospital, Mr Paschal John tells the ‘Daily News’. The violation comes in when a person takes ‘laxative’ with no expert’s prescription, just to force and attract impromptu water accumulation from every angle of the body into intestines, to help soften the waste. At the moment water accumulates by force, one can experience serious diarrhea, among other negatives, hence, affect the digestion system. “And normally, when any body system is violated, it affects the others. For instance, when the water is rechanneled into intestines, by chance, other body organs, such as the kidney experience shortage of water and get affected in various ways, including formation of  crystals,” he says. Again, the system for body waste flashing is also affected due to shortage of water, a situation that leads into among others, concentrated urination (yellowish urine with a bad smell). He stresses that random use of drugs is strictly discouraged, with people being advised to only solve constipation problems through mostly having enough water intake, not less than two litres within 24 hours or 1.5 litres per day (12 hours). People should also stick to balanced food consumption, with every meal being accompanied by portions of fruits and vegetables. Not only random ‘laxative’ use, but lifestyle also contributes to digestion system violation when a person consumes especially excess alcohol and acidic foods, which in turn, scratch the mucus on the intestines walls. “The mucus is there to help accelerate the food in various body parts. When they disappear, then the digestion system is harmed,” he explains, adding that: And excess acidic food stuff consumption contradicts the natural hydrochloric acid in intestines, through which the latter disappears and eventually hurts the whole digestive system. Hydrochloric acid supports digestion while also killing the bacteria that are accidently taken into the mouth, especially when somebody skips the hand-wash before eating. As a result of digestion system violation, one might experience intestinal obstruction, which leads to death, if no quickest medical attention, says Mr John. People should also avoid eating and water drinking at the same time, as the action also violates the digestion system. The water is to be taken after half an hour, but those in fear of food choking should have juice or westerly type of fruits, such as water melon and cucumber, to smooth the swallowing. It is because vegetables and fruits are composed of some fibers that support and ease digestion. “Water is strictly discouraged during the meals because when the two actions are simultaneously practiced, water absorption comes quickly and therefore affects food digestion,” he stresses. In such a situation, according to him, an amount of blood in a person’ head goes down, by chance, into the intestine to help reduce the water and let food digestion continue as usual. At the moment the blood goes down, brain oxygen also is reduced, just to let the person feel exhaustion, stomach ache and sometimes dizzy. “That is why we keep on telling that violation of one body system contradicts the rest 10 systems, as a human has 11 body systems, including Intergumentary, Skeletal, Muscular, endocrine and Nervous, on top of Cardiovascular, Lymphatic, Respiratory, Urinary as well as Reproductive systems,” he says. He is further pinpointing food system protective measures, including having the dinner at-least two hours before going to bed, so as to give room for digestion. It is further noted that too much eating (big food portions) also conflicts the system as the action slows the digestion. As a result, the person is prone to other non-communicable health problems, including obesity; high and low blood pressure as well as diabetes, to mention a few. Poor eating habits are especially negatively impacting a child, since it limits their general growth, including mental development. Sometimes, violation of the food digestion system appears when the mother conceives because almost all body systems’ operations do change. In most cases, the changes are due to an increase in pregnancy hormones that automatically affect the digestive system. As the hormones increase to protect the baby in a mother’s womb, some parts of digestive areas, including sphincters do either stop or slowly function. The Literatures define Sphincters as circular muscles that act as valves, allowing particular areas of the body to open and close. The Literatures also talk about changes occurring in the digestive system during pregnancy, saying that pregnancy hormones can affect the digestive system as the hormone progesterone, which causes smooth muscle relaxation, often causes relaxation and slowing of digestion in the stomach and the small and large intestines. The gallbladder is also affected with delayed emptying. That can increase the chances of gallstone formation. Many of the digestive discomforts of pregnancy such as morning sickness, mostly nausea or vomiting as well as constipation and heartburn are all related to the relaxed tone and slowed action of the digestive system. “The growing uterus itself can affect the digestive system. As the uterus grows, it can press on or even block parts of the digestive tract,” read part of some Literatures, adding that. This can lead to slowed movement of food and constipation. Increasing fluids, regular exercise and increasing the fiber in one’s diet are some of the ways to prevent constipation. The Literatures’ Composers do advise members of the community to always ask healthcare providers before taking any medicine for such a condition. Sekou Toure Hospital Officer in -Charge, Dr Bahati Msaki, supports the motion, stressing that any one should consult the experts before having any kind of medical drug. =-= —-Mukera/winfrida—-