TANZANIA’s President Samia Suluhu Hassan has lifted a ban on political rallies which were suspended indefinitely by her predecessor the Late President John Magufuli. Dr Samia told a meeting with representatives of political parties at the State House in Dar es Salaam “the ban has now been officially lifted… It does not mean creating havoc and political chaos” in the country. “Those with budget can move ahead with public meetings,” she said receiving cheers from the delages. Chadema’s leader, Freeman Mbowe and ACT Zitto Kabwe also attended the meeting. President Samia said political rallies are constitutional rights. She warned however that the government would not fold arms if the laws were infringed, calling all political parties to abide by the rule of law. “We want positive criticism. Criticism that will build the nation not personal attack,” she said, detailing that opposition parties should show the challenges for the government to act on. “If we are able to address those challenges then people will rally behind us.” In her address, the President said the government has also resolved to review the long contested constitution. She was quick to note however that the state will form a special team to assess and advise the government on how best to implement the plan. According to President Samia, people had been proposing to the state to revive the Constitution writing process and some wanted a new document. She told the congress that there has been new development 8 years since the process was put to ice. “Perhaps we might need a completely new document or we just need to update the existing ones,” she said. “We are ready to solve this matter but there is a need to also look at the actual situations of the country and since the constitution is not for political parties but for the Tanzanians we will form a committee that will consist people from all sectors who will come up with something that is for Tanzanians,” Meanwhile, President Samia said the state has moved to review and rewrite various legislations including the Election laws in both Mainland Tanzania and the Isles.