AS Zanzibar takes different measures to raise the living standards and improve its economy through the ‘Blue Economy’ agenda, President Hussein Mwinyi has described the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) a key stakeholder in their economic revolution. Dr Mwinyi said this here at the State House yesterday, during a meeting the newly appointed BoT Governor Mr Emmanuel Tutuba, whose mission to the Island was to introduce himself to  him and other top leaders. Welcoming him, President Mwinyi said the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar benefits a lot from its relations with BoT in various areas, including on pieces of advice on financial matters and research for the economy growth they were realising. “Zanzibar has been recording great success through our relations with the BoT including and that has resulted in efficiency in the implementation of our projects,” he pointed out, promising to accord the new Governor full cooperation and also advised him to continue advancing the ideas of his predecessor. Elaborating, Dr Mwinyi promised the Governor that Zanzibar will work closely with him through the Islands’ Ministry of Finance and Planning and other institutions, adding that the good work done by his predecessor brought great success to them. On the current challenges facing the world economy, Dr Mwinyi said that concerted efforts are required to overcome them including being innovative and increasing productivity in the country. In his entourage, Governor Tutuba was accompanied by his predecessor, Prof Florens Luoga, who was praised by Dr Mwinyi for the cooperation he provided to the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar during his tenure. Governor Tutuba reassured Dr Mwinyi that he will maintain the strong relations that have existed since the birth of BoT, saying the Central Bank belongs to all Tanzanians, and it was their duty to push the country forward in economic issues and financial policies. He said that both governments are there to protect the interests of the citizens, especially by controlling price inflations being caused by the rise in fuel prices affecting the transport sector. In a related development, the new Governor commended Dr Mwinyi and President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan for the visionary leadership and skills they apply in building Tanzania. On his part, the former Governor, Prof Luoga urged Tanzanians to work hard in order to achieve the development goals in the pipeline