ZANZIBAR needs no mention in the hospitality industry. It is undoubtedly a home to the most exquisite and luxurious hotels in the country. Last year, Hotel Verde Zanzibar – Azam Luxury Resort and Spa emerged Africa’s Leading Green Hotel 2021 in the World Travel Awards announced in November. The facility fended off challenges from the likes of Aberdare Country Club in Kenya, Egypt’s Hilton Hurghada Plaza, Morukuru Beach Lodge of South Africa and Serena Hotel in Nairobi. Also on the winning streak was Chapwani Private Island of Zanzibar which scooped Africa’s Leading Private Island Resort 2021, having proven to be too good at the expense of AnantaraMedjumbe Island Resort of Mozambique, Kenya’s Manda Bay and The Sands at Chale Island in Kenya. EssqueZalu Zanzibar, a hidden gem by the Indian Ocean was voted Zanzibar’s Leading Hotel 2021 by the World Travel Awards, while Meliá Zanzibar was declared as Zanzibar’s Leading Resort 2021 by the travel industry’s most prestigious awards programme, rewarding leaders in the tourism, airline, hotel and hospitality sectors. Such feats have brought nothing but sheer excitement among tourists and stakeholders in the Isles. As they put it, it has given them extra impetus of doing even better in bolstering the hospitality industry. “We would say Zanzibar hospitality sector has been a great relief and success to the government and its people,” explained Mr Rahim Bhaloo, the Chairperson of Zanzibar Association of Tourism Investors (ZATI). According to the ZATI senior official, almost every family in Zanzibar currently relies directly or indirectly on the tourism sector. He added that tourism has certainly brought growth to Zanzibar and there is still huge potential to be explored, especially with the new government’s initiative of the Blue Economy. Mr Bhaloo is equally grateful to the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, noting that it had taken the right direction towards the envisioned Blue Economy initiative. Zanzibar is today celebrating 59 years since toppling the Sultanate rule, which governed the islands through Arab-dominated government. Called Revolution Day, January 12 is the day in 1964 when Zanzibar formed its independent government.