DIFFERENT religious leaders at different platforms to usher in New Year stressed on peace, love and solidarity among Tanzanians, saying they are the cornerstone of the country’s development. That was after the parishioners gathered in various worshiping places to welcome the New Year (2023) with prayers and hymns in praise of God. For instance, in Churches and open grounds the believers asked God for the country’s guidance as the New Year (2023) slowly began. The Archbishop of the Catholic Church’s Archdiocese of Dar es Salaam Yuda Thadei Ruwai’ch called upon believers to develop a culture of always repenting and caring for one another. “We must thank God for protecting us and keeping us safe and healthy throughout the 365 days of 2022 and today we have reached 2023 safely. “Let us ask for His blessings and power in this year so that we can live in peace and serve one another,” he said. Another prelate, the Assistant Bishop (dean) of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania Eastern and Coastal Diocese (ELCT – ECD) Chediel Lwiza asked people to get rid of laziness, and instead work hard, adding that God never entertains idleness but wants people to work hard. Preaching at Azania Front Cathedral during the New Year Eve Mass, Pastor Lwiza associated the laziness with sin, and called upon parents to teach children that hard work pays and adds income to the family. “Irresponsible and lazy Christian who simple banks on miracles must have lost his/her faith and can not please God. God demonstrated this by working for six days, and sparing one day that is the seventh day to rest. We must also work and sacrifice a day to rest and worship Him. Let us work hard in 2023,” he pointed out. Elaborating, he tasked the parishioners to individually assess themselves if they really live according to God’s wants. Meanwhile, the leader of Shia Muslims, Sheikh Hemed Jalala, has called upon Tanzanians to maintain peace, love, and solidarity among themselves in the New Year 2023. Sheikh Jalala said this yesterday in the Dar es Salaam at the religious leaders’ conference. “Peace is the national value and having a peaceful country like this is a good thing,” he said. Equally, he challenged the believers to realise that peace, unity, and stability are the values of the nation, saying: “Let Tanzania continue to be recognised as an Island of peace.”