SIMBA a Queens’ comeback goals from Opa Clement and Asha Djafar ended Fountain Gate Princess’s unbeaten recording as they handed them a 2-1 loss at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Fountain Gate Princess, who appeared confident, picked an opening goal through Reticia Nabossa before Oppa Clement equalised with a spot-kick, and Asha Djafar doubled it in the second half. The results still place Fountain Gate Princess at the pilot seat with nine points, while Simba Queens are stationed fourth after lodging seven points, similar to Alliance Girls and JKT Girls. In another development, Alliance Girls Head Coach Ezekiel Chobanka has warned Yanga Princess to expect turbulence when they meet in the Women’s Premier League match at Uhuru stadium in Dar es Salaam today. Speaking about his team’s preparation ahead of the game, Chobanka said his players are well-drilled, and he is confident that they will win their second away match. He said the team would miss the services of the injured Ramla Ismail. Chobanka said his team played well in their last three matches and is convinced that they will work very hard this season to achieve the target of winning the league’s title. He said the league is difficult because all teams work hard to ensure they win their home matches, but they will work hard to ensure they get positive results. Chobanka, the former Mashujaa and the Tigers coach, has called upon the football family in Mwanza to continue supporting their team in their home and away matches. He said his midfield, defence and forward line sections are doing an excellent job. In their last three matches, they have drawn once with JKT Queens and won two games, 1-0 against Ceassia at Nyamagana stadium and 4-1 against Tigers at Black Rhino Stadium in Manyara. They have conceded one and netted five goals. On her side, Alliance Girls’ skipper Anita Adongo said their match against Yanga Princess will be difficult, but they are aiming to win. After their match against Yanga Princess, Alliance Queens will play their next match against Fountain Gate Princess at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. On January 18th, Alliance Queens will play against Mkwawa Queens at Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza.