EQUITY Bank Tanzania Limited has committed to creating a friendly digital environment for Tanzanians, including employees and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to easily access loans. Equity Bank Tanzania Managing Director, Ms Isabela Maganga, made the statement yesterday in Dar salaam during launching of the new 2023 campaign dubbed ‘TUMERAHISISHA’ which means simplicity. According to her, the campaign will be a solution to facilitate the convenience of banking services quickly through digital systems. “Equity Bank has removed the bureaucracy by making the banking services to be easier accessed by our customers through improved digital systems… the customers can themselves access the services very easily … we have ensured that when the customer comes to us and apply for a loan, there is no bureaucracy,” Ms Maganga said. The Equity Bank MD noted further that the campaign aims to ensure timely service provision to its customers, including feedback on credit facilities. “Recently, getting loan service in our bank is very easy, we have made it easier to give loans to employees, SMEs, including women and youth,” she said. Similarly, Ms Maganga said that they will use their professions to ensure that they give professional advice to the customers, adding that all branches of the bank have special officers ready to give professional advice. In a related development, she said the launch of the ‘TUMERAHISISHA’ campaign is a continuation of what the bank has already started doing adding early last year, Equity Group launched the Africa Recovery and Resilience Initiative, a social and economic transformation programme that Equity has funded with 7 billion US dollars to impact 100 million people on the African continent through its financial impact initiatives and social and reach 5 million MSMEs and 25 million private customers, to provide 50 million job opportunities. She further said the move enabled the Equity Group to become a champion of private sector investment in the agriculture sector, industry and transportation, trade and investment. “The programme enabled the Group to be the champion in micro-, small and mediumsized Enterprises (MSMEs) sector,” she added.