TANZANIA has vowed to work with India and South Korea to further strengthen bilateral ties, as part of efforts to boost the socioeconomic development in a win-win situation. Data from the United Nations COMTRADE shows that South Korea imports from Tanzania was 25.88 million US dollars in 2021. In her observation June last year, President Samia Suluhu Hassan noted that the trade volume between Tanzania and India has steadily grown over the years to the tune of 9.2tri/-, estimated as 4 billion US dollars. Making the revelation, while holding talks with the Indian High Commissioner to Tanzania Binaya Pradhan and South Korean Ambassador to Tanzania, Kim Young Su in Dodoma recently, Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister, Dr Stergomena Tax further said that the two countries are cooperating in various sectors, which are beneficial for their people. “It’s time Tanzania and India fast-track the execution of their various agreements to arrive at the set goals…it’s important that we work together in reaching our goals, despite the strong commitment and cooperation which has already been demonstrated,” said Dr Tax. She expressed commitment to continue fostering the mutual and historical cooperation which has existed for a long time now. To the High Commissioner, the Minister praised him for sparing time to pay a courtesy call since her appointment, adding that the visit will help her to understand in details how to enhance their ties. Likewise, the two exchanged ideas on how to go about different issues which they have agreed upon as a part of the cooperation between the two countries. On his part, Ambassador Pradhan was pleased with the cooperation he was getting from Tanzania in implementing their activities, citing India government work through Apollo Hospital that has agreed to collaborate with Muhimbili National Hospital, the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute and Bugando Hospital in Mwanza and Ocean Road Cancer Centre to build capacity for human resources in the hospitals. On the education sector, the Ambassador noted how the existing collaboration between the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) and his country have contributed in improving the college to become a centre of excellence in dissemination of information and communication technology services within the country. In another development, Dr Tax expressed the commitment of Tanzania in further strengthening collaboration with South Korea in different sectors like agriculture, education and culture and information communication technology. In response, Ambassador Su applauded Dr Tax for being appointment in the portfolio, assuring her that South Korea will continue to collaborate with Tanzania in the various sectors. “We will continue to embrace our cooperation which has been built on the strong foundations by our founding fathers,” stressed Ambassador.