YOUNG Africans and Azam decorate the 20th round Premier League fixture as they host Ihefu and Tanzania Prisons respectively in two headline- making encounters in Dar es Salaam today. At Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, holders Yanga have a chance to open up a 9-point gap at the summit of the table if they beat Ihefu. Likewise, Azam are at their Azam Complex arena in the city taking up Prisons who suffered the heaviest defeat of the season 7-1 from Simba in their past encounter. At a press briefing yesterday, Yanga’s Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze revealed that five players will miss today’s match due to various degrees of challenges they have encountered. He named them as Stephanie Aziz Ki, Bernard Morrison, Yanick Bangala, Abutwalib Mshery and Zawadi Mauya while insisting that other members of the team are ready for the task. Moreover, Kaze predicted a tougher match than the first round encounter saying Ihefu have accomplished good signings and have a different competitive team ready to put on a good fight. On his part, Ihefu Assistant Coach Themi Felix said they are aware how difficult the game is going to be but disclosed that they have had ample preparations and are ready for the battle. “We are not satisfied with the current position on the league table and we want to climb up the ladders…the only way to achieve that is by winning tomorrow’s (today) match,” he said. Ihefu are in record books for becoming the only team since last season to beat Yanga (2-1) and consequently ending their 49 match unbeaten run which was diffused at Highland Estates Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya. For Azam, the team’s  Assistant Fitness Coach Agrey Morris said they are also well prepared to host Tanzania Prisons and are looking forward to stamp success in order to bag maximum points. “It is not going to be an easy game but basing on the preparations we have had, we will play with more energy to emerge victors and keep climbing up the log,” Moris said. On the other hand, Tanzania Prisons skipper Benjamin Asukile remarked that losing 7-1 to Simba in their past match is not a guarantee that Azam will have a smooth ride. “All the mistakes we produced in our previous game have been worked at and we are all ready to display good performance which in the end will award us positive results,” he said.