THE Sixth Phase government envisions to embark on construction of five irrigation schemes in Rukwa region to cover 21,600 ha come 2025. Minister for Agriculture, Mr Hussein Bashe revealed that this week while concluding his two day working tour of the region by holding a meeting with various stakeholders. In attendance were agro agents, cereal traders, transporters, senior government officials from all four councils in the region. Expounding, the minister said that construction of the Ilemba Irrigation Scheme that covers 1,600 ha will cost more than 21bn/- He said the government has set aside over 9bn/- for the implementation of the first phase of the project. “One month from today the contractor will sign a contractual agreement and subsequently start implementation of the project which will involve the construction of a main canal with 4.5 kms and laying a pipe with 30 inches width” said the minister. He said the survey for Sakalilo irrigation scheme covering 2,000 ha will start in 2023/2024 financial year. According to the minister, the irrigation experts from the Ministry of Agriculture will team up with the Rukwa Region experts to carry out survey on 15,000 ha of land at Kilyamatundu Village meant for irrigation scheme. “The Kilyamatundu scheme will draw water from Momba River bordering Rukwa and Songwe regions” added the minister. The construction of trio irrigation schemes of Ilemba, Sakalilo and Kilyamatundu will take place at the Rift Valley along the Lake Rukwa Basin in Sumbawanga District Council that is famous for rice production. “Under the year previewed (2023- 2024 FY) the detailed survey will be carried out on two irrigation schemes in Nkasi District covering a combined 3,000 ha…. Rukwa has a large tract of vast land and conducive weather suitable for irrigation farming so the government is committed to invest heavily in irrigation schemes in Rukwa region “noted the minister. He further says ‘ The initiative will boost rice production to sustain food self sufficiency and subsequently meeting growing demand of staple food in the region and country at large “emphasised Mr Bashe. According to the minister the construction of the schemes will go hand in hand with the construction of modern market at Kilyamatundu village as farmers will access competitive and available centre for their produces. Equally he directed the Sumbawanga District Council to allocate a plot of land covering more than 10 ha for the construction of the modern market structure at Kilyamatundu area. “I also invite citizens to invest and establish paddy processing factories once the 10 ha of land is allocated at Kilyamatundu” he insisted. The Rukwa Region Irrigation officer, engineer Lucas Mganda told this paper on the sideline of the stakeholders meeting that the construction of the schemes will help individual farmer to boost rice production to 45 bags per ha against the previous 20 bags “The region has 58 irrigation schemes out of which 52 are traditional irrigation schemes … it has also identified and evaluate 67,461 ha of land suitable for irrigation farming ” explained Eng Mganda.