TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) has lauded the 150m US Dollars sports project, saying it is the biggest initiative that has been poured in for hyper-modern basketball infrastructure in Zanzibar. Early this week the Executive Director of Zanzibar Investment Promotion Authority (ZIPA) Shariff Ali Shariff handed over the investment certificate and the land lease document to the Urban Icon International Limited company. The company is set to invest in sports by constructing a modern basketball arena in the Fumba area, just outside Zanzibar City. TBF Vice-President Rweha Munyagi told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam on Thursday that the project is a big boost for the country’s basketball development perspectives. “I think it’s a wonderful project for Zanzibar and Tanzania, it will promote  tourism in  Zanzibar as the Isles are major tourist destination  while it will also expand and market sports tourism. “By having the world-class arena and this facility I heard, it will include beach sports also, so it will not only support basketball but also other sports and entertainments,” he stressed. Adding, Munyagi said such an investment can make Tanzania open up to other investments through sports. “You see how the basketball ecosystem will grow and sports and sports tourism are climbing up the ladder to become major economic drivers,” he added. Munyagi complimented President Samia Suluhu and Zanzibar President Hussein Mwinyi for their efforts that have now started to pay off by attracting sports investors from abroad. While handing over the investment certificate, Shariff said that the investment will help promote Zanzibar sportingly, as the arena will be used for international and national level sporting events, along with providing opportunities for youths who are focused on the game of basketball. Receiving the certificate, the representative of the company, Charles Smith, who is a former NBA player, insisted that the investment will include beach sports too. He was quoted as saying that they have decided to invest in Zanzibar because of the good investment structures that exist there, through the discussion he had with the ZIPA Executive Director in America last year. The investment expected to start soon will be worth about 150m/- US dollars. The area where the arena will be built is approximately 10.25 hectares, about 102,500 square meters.