AFTER becoming the first health facility in the country to introduce bariatric surgery, a weight loss procedure in 2019, the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) has introduced two more types of weight loss procedures to people with overweight and obesity. Bariatric surgeon at the BMH, Dr Martine Sindani, said here yesterday that BMH now performs three types of weight loss procedures, mentioning the first weight loss surgery introduced by the 400-bed capacity hospital three years ago as Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG). “We have introduced two more types of weight loss procedures to people with overweight and obesity to make three types of weight loss procedures services being performed by the BMH now,” said the bariatric surgeon at the BMH. Weight loss procedure is being promoted as a solution to reducing the incidence of Type 2 Diabetes as well as other medical conditions associated with obesity. Dr Sindani pointed out that two more types of weight loss procedures introduced by the BMH as Gastric Balloon Surgery, a weight loss procedure that involves placing a saline filled silicone balloon in a stomach to a person with overweight and obesity. He mentioned another type of weight loss surgery that the BMH has introduced as Gastric Band Surgery, a procedure that is adjustable and reversible and that involves placing a silicone band called the Lap Band around the stomach of a person with obesity. “This type of procedure decreases food intake by reducing stomach size so that the person feels full sooner,” said the bariatric surgeon. Dr Sindani explained that the other two types of weight loss procedures are temporary, meaning that if a person does not comply with conditions including diet and doing exercise, the unneeded body weight continues. “Gastric Balloon Surgery and Gastric Band Surgery are temporary, meaning that if the person who had undergone such procedures does not comply with conditions the body weight resumes,” he said. Dr Sindani said that Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy is the only permanent as 75 per cent of the stomach is removed leaving a narrow gastric tube or sleeve, saying the procedure is typically performed laparoscopically, which involves inserting small instruments through multiple incisions in the upper abdomen. “People should balance usage of starch foods and do exercise in order to maintain body weight,” he said. Dr Sindani informed that for a person with overweight and obesity to undergo weight loss surgery firstly conducts medical check up to find out Body Weight Index (BMI) and that a person with BMI 40kg/m2 and above should undergo weight loss intervention such as LSG. After undergoing a weight loss procedure, he said a person will recover in a month and resume normal business. BMH performed the first successful bariatric surgery on Ms Stella Makyao (40) of Sumbawanga District in Rukwa Region three years ago. “I am doing well now since I had undergone bariatric surgery at the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH),” she told this journalist in a telephone interview yesterday.