MORE than 140 customers of Halotel Telecommunication Company have benefited from various prizes during the 10-week promotion dubbed ‘7bang bang’. This was noted in Dar es Salaam on Thursday at an event to conclude the promotion, where the company handed over a brand new Toyota IST to the overall winner of a big prize draw. Since the beginning of the promotion, various prizes have been won, including mobile vouchers worth up to 100,000/-, Samsung Galaxy A53 and A73 smartphones, or 50-inch smart TV. Speaking during the event to handover Toyota IST to the overall winner, Halotel Business Director, Mr Abdallah Salum, remarked: “Today, we have a lucky winner who won a brand new car after participating in our ‘7 bang bang’ promotion. “We thought it would be good if we hand over this award when we finalise this festive season along with thanking our customers for using our telecommunication services in the country,” he said. Mr Salum added: “Today we are very happy to handover to our customer, Ms Scholastica Sostenes Haule, who is the overall winner in our big prize draw.” He counselled Ms Haule to properly use the car to bring about positive changes in her life. Mr Salum also used the opportunity to encourage other customers to continue using the Halotel telecommunication network which has continued embracing creativity. On her part, Ms Haule thanked Halotel while encouraging her fellow customers to continue using the Halotel network and take part in promotions run by the company so that won various prizes. Apart from handing over the prize, the company used the opportunity to launch a modern Halotel shop at Palm Village Mall located alongside Mwai Kibaki road in the Mikocheni area in Dar es Salaam. The new shop will offer all services to customers. Speaking at the event, Halotel’s Sales Manager for Dar es Salaam, Rodrique Paul, said the launch of the new shop is in line with Halotel’s strategy for improving the provision of services to customers and fulfil its promise of allowing customers to access services near to their locations.