WITH three days to go before the climax of the mini-transfer window, giants Simba and Young Africans have pledged to complete lucrative deals to cement their squads. It has been a quiet transfer window for the two big clubs which have so far finalised domestic signings as their fans await to witness the landing of foreign imports. For Simba, they have brought on board one player Saido Ntibazonkiza from Geita Gold where he traded and has already shown his impact during his debut against Tanzania Prisons in Dar es Salaam where he netted a hat-trick. Likewise, Yanga injected Mudathir Yahya who was featured in two matches they played against KMKM and Singida Big Stars in the group stage of the 2023 Mapinduzi Cup in Zanzibar. However, writing on his Instagram page yesterday, Simba investor Mohamed Dewji ‘Mo’ claimed that the exercise of signing new players has reached a good stage. “Good morning Simba fans, signing has reached at a good stage,” Mo wrote as many Simba supporters commented positively encouraging him to make good signings before the window shuts down. For Yanga, the club’s Media and Communication Manager Ally Kamwe has also reiterated that they are bringing on board one striker and one center-back to add energy to the current squad. “Almost 90 percent of discussions with the players are complete, what is remaining now are just minor issues and soon they will land in the country to begin their responsibilities. “Their arrival will add value to our league because they are big players with the quality to play at Yanga as we aim to do well in the Premier League, CAF Confederation Cup and Azam Sports Federation Cup,” he said. He also revealed that a lot of tactical research was done by the team’s technical bench to establish areas in the team that require immediate boost before the re-start of competitive encounters. In a related development, Kamwe said by Friday (tomorrow), the entire squad will begin preparations for the approaching matches as they aim to continue from where they stopped in their previous match. Yanga face Ihefu on Monday at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam in a seemingly revenge match for the former after going down 2-1 in the first-round fixture at Highland Estates Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya. 