SINGIDA Big Stars look determined to play in the CAF Inter-Club Champions and their yesterday’s 1-0 victory over third-placed  Azam was crystal-clear proof. The newly promoted side has since their promotion to the top-flight league looked a force to reckon with in the championship race while almost assured of a place in the top-four finish. Following yesterday’s victory, Singida Big Stars have tied with Azam on 43  points mark, only their inferior goal average places them below Azam. It was Bruno Gomez’s stunning free-kick that secured Singida Big Stars’ 1-0 victory over Azam FC at CCM Liti Stadium in Singida yesterday. At the standing, Young Africans remain in command of the title race with 53 points garnered from 20-game outings prior to their late yesterday match with Ruvu Shooting. Simba are second after banking 50 points from 21 games. The two sides’ battle has been exciting and they are well positioned for the  best-four spot as their closest pursuers; Geita Gold and Namungo with 28  and 26 points respectively are still glued far behind. Generally, it was an exciting game, with both teams having excellent footwork and good ball possession while attacking interchangeably. Azam made a first attempt in the 13th minute through Abdul Sopu from Kenneth Muguna set through, but Singida Big Stars goalkeeper Benedict Haule stood firm and thwarted the danger. Singida Big Stars responded with three attacks from Bruno Gomez in the 19th and 38th minutes and Said Ndemla in the 27th minute, but neither of the players’ attempts broke the deadlock. Singida Big Stars’ efforts to seek an opener paid off in the 45th minute after Bruno Gomez converted a free kick, following a foul committed by Azam  keeper Ali Ahmada to Francis Kazadi. Gomez has had the best form in the league, topping his club’s scoring record after lodging eight goals. The second half commenced, with both teams voicing the sharpness of their gunners. In the 58th minute, Prince Dube’s strike from outside the penalty box was saved by Benedict Haule. Gomez’s only goal in the first half was enough to conclude the game despite Azam’s attempts to level while Singida Big Stars looked to double the score. Before yesterday’s encounter, Azam won twice after playing three consecutive games. They have won twice, drawn twice, and lost 3-2  to Young Africans on Christmas day. Their host Singida Big Stars, had the best form in five games, winning four of them and drawing  with Mbeya City in December last year. The competition this season has continued to be stiff as fans witness a close positioning in points. The top four team battle is led by  Young Africans with 53 points before their match against Ruvu Shooting yesterday evening. Simba are second with 50 points in 21 games. The two teams are in shape to finish at the top position if they maintain their best forms.