FOOTWORK action in the Premier League is back as the 20th round flags off with a solo mouth-watering fixture involving Mtibwa Sugar against KMC at Manungu Complex in Morogoro today. The two teams meet in a recovery match after suffering losses in their past league assignments hence an opportunity for them to shine by pocketing maximum points. Mtibwa Sugar went down 1-0 to Young Africans at the same venue hence squandering three points at home. Similarly, KMC lost 1-0 to rejuvenated side Ihefu at Highland Estate Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya hence they are looking to bounce back strongly by upsetting the Morogoro-based giants, and this makes the encounter look tense. On the log, after 19 matches, Mtibwa Sugar are placed 8th with 24 points while KMC are 9th courtesy of their 22 points as such; the latter’s victory will see them leapfrogging their opponents. Tomorrow, two venues will explode as Geita Gold host Dodoma Jiji at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita for yet another thrilling match of the league’s 20th round with three points hanging by thread. At Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi, Namungo welcome the bottom-placed Polisi Tanzania who face a must win game in order to keep their belief of escaping relegation alive. The Kilimanjaro-based team which is now under the tutelage of Mwinyi Zahera has just won two games from 19 played encounters hence with ten games remaining before the league ends they need to wake up before it is too late. On Sunday, one match will be staged at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga where hosts Coastal Union will lock horns with Mbwana Makata’s Ruvu Shooting as the latter still struggle to regain  composure. However, on Monday, three arenas will be busy as Singida Big Stars play Kagera Sugar at Liti Stadium in Singida, Azam host Tanzania Prisons at Azam Complex while the defending champions Young Africans entertain Ihefu at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Then on Tuesday, the 20th round wraps up with a headline making duel between Simba and Mbeya City at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, the first league mission for Simba’s new Brazilian trainer, Robertinho Oliviera. 