THE Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) said here, yesterday that it is happy with the positive investment made by the Bagamoyo Sugar Limited that has resulted in planting 2,000 hectares of sugarcane, creating 1000 jobs and building infrastructures using internal resources. Speaking at the end of the tour of the farms and firm’s premises, the TCCIA Acting President, Mr Swallah Saidi Swallah, said the chamber is happy with the performance of the company and its plans, especially the promotion of the crop outgrowers. “We are happy with the performance of this company. We have witnessed positive and focused investment that promises our country good results in the sugar industry. “To us (TCCIA) the existence of this company with positive investment plans is success, a big success in the agriculture, industry and commerce sectors,” he told reporters. The factory is owned by the Bakhresa Group of Companies. Mr Swallah said the chamber wants to know exactly how Bagamoyo smallholders can grow sugarcane and become an important supplier of raw materials to the factory. He further noted that the chamber has adopted a tour strategy that entails visiting companies and discussing with owners the basis of their successes, emerging challenges and problems and how to solve them. “We have started with industries.  We want to know what is taking place there, identify areas of cooperation and what kind of support the chamber can offer.  We have started with industry,” he said. He praised the current government’s investment policy, which he said is friendly to investors and has consequently attracted investors to Tanzania. A member of the TCCIA Board of Directors, Dr Kingu Mtemi, who was part of the delegation, said the delegation was impressed by the plans and willingness of the company to support sugarcane out growers as an important supplier of raw materials. “There is a glaring big demand for raw materials. As a chamber we would like to cooperate with this company to motivate sugar out growers and make them a reliable source of raw material for the factory,” he said. The Deputy General Manager (Agriculture), Mr Nallusamy  Rajendran Murali, told visitors that the company welcomes support from the TCCIA. He said the company has built internal farm roads, established irrigation infrastructure and bought requisite machinery and machines for loading and offloading canes using company resources. He said the company wants to use sugar out growers as key suppliers of raw materials.