WALKING THE TALK: BUILDING A PROSPEROUS TANZANIA THE construction of major bridges is among the strategic projects undertaken by the Sixth Phase Government aimed at opening up the country by linking its upcountry regions and neighboring nations. In the course, the government has continued to provide funds for execution of the projects, where some of them have been completed and are operating and some at various stages of implementation. For instance, the bridges which have been completed include the Selander one known as Tanzanite Bridge in Dar es Salaam which was officially launched in March last year by President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Kitengule in Kagera and Ruhuhu in Ruvuma. Others are Momba in Rukwa, Mlalakuwa in Dar es Salaam, Magara in Manyara, Lukuledi in Lindi and Mara Bridge. Bridges under construction include the Kigongo-Busisi across Lake Victoria and the new Wami Bridge in Coast Region, which was opened for use in October last year. With its completion now at 90 per cent, the new Wami Bridge is an important link connecting the Northern Zone regions with the Coastal precincts, including Dar-es-salaam as well as central regions like Morogoro. The construction of the 75bn/- bridge will replace the old one which was constructed in 1959 and does not meet the needs of transporters and travelers between the two, highly populated zones. The new bridge  with  a length of 510 and width of 11.85 metres  is located 670 meters from the old bridge and has been opened for public use while awaits for official inauguration The old bridge, which was commissioned in 1959, two years before Tanzania’s independence was comparatively narrow. The new Wami Bridge is, thus, expected to address challenges that have been affecting vehicles crossing that road section for more than six decades. Tabling the budget estimates for the Ministry of Works and Transport for the 2022/2023 financial year, Minister in the docket, Prof Makame Mbarawa said that a total of 2bn/- has been set aside for the completion of the project. A section of road transport stakeholders, including transporters and travellers through their associations, expressed high optimism that the bridge will have massive benefits for them and bridge economies. A case study, Tanzania Truck Owners Association (TATOA), whose members offer cargo transport services to and from northern and neighboring regions, said the new structure will improve transportation services and cut regular accidents in the area. Mr Rahim Dosa, TATOA Spokesperson, told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that it was hectic crossing the one-lane old bridge, a situation which contributed to persistent accidents at Wami. “Since the old bridge had only one-lane it allowed only one vehicle from one side to cross and another on the other side had to wait. But the new bridge allows vehicles from both sides to cross. We congratulate the government for this because it was a long-lasting suffering back then,” Mr Dosa explained. The Tanzania Passengers Rights Association (CHAKUA) Chairperson, Mr Hassan Mchanjama also hailed the government for ensuring that transport challenges are addressed, mentioning that the area was prone to accidents. On other hand, Mr Mchanjama said the structure will be of huge economic value for traders, who travel to the northern regions and vice versa, adding that they would reach their destinations safely and timely, because movement of vehicles would be fast-tracked. Mr Issa Nkya, Treasurer of the Tanzania Bus Owners Association (TABOA) had the same feelings, saying when roads become good accidents are reduced. “The new bridge has significantly reduced the time of crossing. Unlike the old bridge, buses took more time because they had to cross one after the other from two sides of the bridge,” he pointed out. On his part, CCM’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Shaka Hamdu Shaka, said the party was satisfied with the pace of implementation of the bridge construction and showers praises on President Samia Suluhu Hassan for ensuring the project comes to fruition. According to Minister Mbarawa, the project includes the construction of 513.5 metres and connecting roads with 3.8 kilometres. The construction of the bridge is in line with the ruling party CCM 2020/2025 election manifesto as well as in the Third National Five-Year Development Plan (FYDPIII) that describes it as a key project that is beneficial for the country. The FYDP III has placed priority in taking comparative advantage of the geography and size of the country to enhance competitiveness. The document points out that road and bridge infrastructures that will create solid intra and inter-linkages will crucially cement Tanzania’s position as an ideal location for investments in market-seeking industries that target the emerging African markets in East African Community (EAC) and Southern African Development Community (SADC).