NATIONAL Arts Council (BASATA) has cautioned artists to adhere to codes of conduct that guide their profession so as to avoid unnecessary penalties and disciplinary measures for immoral acts. The National Arts Council recently made this caution in Dar es Salaam, following the penalty the council issued to ‘Wavuvi Kemp’ following the incident that went viral on social media platforms showing two ladies dressed inappropriately. A senior arts officer at National Arts Council, Abel Ndana, confirmed that the accused confessed their involvement in the scam and agreed to take the responsibility for the inappropriate behaviour committed by the two ladies; therefore, they were slapped with a 3m/- fine. He added artists must observe moral codes that guide our society, insisting the arts council would not tolerate seeing the breach of ethical principles. Apart from urging artists to adhere to good morals, Ndana called upon artists and arts stakeholders to ensure they complete their registration, highlighting it is unlawful to work as an artist without being registered with the board. In ensuring that artists and arts stakeholders enjoy their working environment, NSC officials visited various entertainment and recreation areas on New Year eve to offer registration to those artists and content creators who still need to be registered Adding, Ndana said apart from registration, they also offered awareness and unveiled the issues troubling artists in their day-to-day activities. Meanwhile, the Tanzanian envoy in the Miss Africa Golden pageant, Flora Dalali, flew to Nigeria yesterday for the competition, which will commence today and climax on January 15th this year. Flora, on her departure, lauded the government for its support throughout her preparation. “I would like to express my sincere gratitude to our government and the Nigerian government. I am happy to be chosen to represent Tanzania, Nigeria at the Miss Africa Golden pageant about culture, tourism, and things related to Africa in general. Thank you.”