THE University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) is a center of knowledge, skilled in producing graduates who are used in various academic areas in the country and abroad. UDSM aims to provide the best possible environment for teaching, learning, research and public services, and their success is well known in Africa and the rest of the world. Speaking at the 52nd graduation ceremony of UDSM recently, President Samia Suluhu Hassan showered praises to the institution for producing highly competent individuals who have served and continue to serve in various leadership positions both locally and globally. President Samia urged other higher learning institutions in the country to ensure that they produce highlyskilled graduates to meet the demand of the labour market and ultimately contribute to development of the country as well as produce graduates who can be employed and also create self-employment for themselves. “The education being provided by institutions should address challenges facing the community,” she stressed. Dr Samia also urged higher learning institutions to establish technological clusters within their campuses to encourage innovation in science and technology. “The government will extend required support to ensure the clusters produce tangible results,” she stated, urging the graduates to put into practice what they had been taught in class for the betterment of the society. At the event, President Samia Suluhu Hassan was conferred with Honorary Doctorate Degree of Doctor of Letters (D.Litt honoris causa ). The Head of State was recognized for her outstanding contribution to education and human rights. Quoting scholars and eminent persons, Dr Samia stressed that development in education system is vital for economic development of any country. “Former President of South Africa, the late Nelson Mandela once said that it is through education that a daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, a son of a miner can become the head of a large mining company and a child of a farm worker can become a president of a big country,” quoted President Samia. The President pointed to the fact that education system should be dynamic rather than static so that it can embrace technological advancement being experienced in other parts of the world. Dr Samia noted that through changes taking place in the world today, there is need to embark on reforms which will steer the country through the right direction politically, socially and economically. “That is why I have come up with the four Rs, which stand for Reconciliation, Resilience, Reforms and Rebuilding of the nation, it is through this approach that we will be in a position to unite our country towards development,” she emphasized. She added, “There is also need to promote academic independence since divergent ideas and opinions are crucial for spurring development”. UDSM Chancellor, who is also former President of Tanzania, Dr Jakaya Kikwete was the one who conferred President Samia with the honorary doctorate degree. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor of UDSM, Prof William Anangisye said the institution has registered a number of achievements during the past one year, including introduction of four new programmes for Bachelor Degrees, Masters and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Prof Anangisye mentioned another achievement as increment of funds allocated for research and innovation from 1.9bn/- during financial year 2020/2021 to 3.15bn/- during the fiscal year 2021/2022. “The number of research projects have thus increased from 218 to 299 during the period under review, representing an increase of 23.4 per cent,” he explained. Prof Anangisye noted further that the varsity has inked several Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with a number of African countries on teaching of Kiswahili language at UDSM. The VC said a total of 2,115 students had graduated during the fifth phase while a total of 11,176 students had graduated during all phases of graduation ceremonies at UDSM and its colleges. “Out of the total number, 141 students were conferred with PhD this year compared to 94 students last year,” he explained. The Chairperson of UDSM Governing Council, Ambassador Mwanaidi Sinare, said the varsity is determined to impart needed skills to students through the UDSM Development Vision 2061. The Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Adolph Mkenda, praised President Samia and other stakeholders for providing scholarships to students who perform well in science subjects in their Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education (ACSE) to pursue first degrees in science subjects.