THE National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has received office furniture and ICT equipment worth 425.6m/-, from the Italian Embassy in Tanzania through the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation. The ICT equipment and office furniture includes 15 laptops, nine projectors, one projecting board, one heavy duty printer, one heavy duty photocopy machine, 152 office chairs and 50 staff tables. Others include 30 wooden cabinet, ten metal cabinet, eight executive tables, ten conference tables, two board room tables, two meeting tables and one executive lounge table. Speaking during the handing over ceremony in Dodoma yesterday, the 2022 National Population and Housing Census Commissioner Ms Anne Makinda thanked the Italian Embassy for the support. She said the support would significantly help to strengthen the institutional capacity in coordination of production, dissemination and the use of official statistics within the national statistic system. “This support from the Republic of Italy to NBS has come at the right time as there is a great need for NBS to strengthen its capacity especially in embracing and application of new technology, to enable the agency to produce and disseminate real time official statistics,” said Ms Makinda. She said that NBS really appreciate this support as they are embarking to the third phase of 2022 Population and Housing Census, where the main task is to analyse, disseminate and ensure the use of these official data in development decision making. “Official statistics is the heart of any development as it is used to inform decision making and monitoring and evaluation of a national, regional and global development plans and programmes. This support has come at an opportune time,” she said. Ms Makinda also said that the support of furniture and ICT equipment is a result of the good bilateral relations between Tanzania and Italy. In addition, she said that NBS is very grateful with their work as there are very high demand of the census information within the government institutions, private agencies and other developmental stakeholders. The Statistician General of NBS Dr Albina Chuwa said that the furniture and ICT equipment will be distributed within the NBS Head Quarter and other in NBS regional offices, so as to improve the overall working environment especially in regional offices. “Part of these furniture and equipment will be distributed in our regional offices so as to improve our efficiency in analysing census data. She also explained that NBS is now continuing with the project of training in agriculture and fisheries areas. The Italian Ambassador to Tanzania Marco Lombardi said that the aim of supporting NBS is to help the speedy spread and use of official census statistics country wide. He added that this support also marks continuing good and long relationship between Tanzania and Italy.