SIMBA Head Coach Roberto Oliviera showered praises on his charges for their quick understanding of his philosophy as Dodoma Jiji’s Assistant Coach Kassim Liogope sees a bright future in his squad despite a loss. The Msimbazi Street Reds claimed a vital 1-0 away win over hosts Dodoma Jiji in a Premier League game staged at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma over the weekend, and the win consolidated their race for the championship title. Striker Jean Baleke netted on his debut to give his side a hard-earned victory as he tries to establish himself at the club hence, it was a remarkable debut for him. “We prepared a good team in Dubai and today (Sunday), we have another victory. I am very happy about this because Simba is a big club and every time, they deserve to win. “I am very happy because players have understood fast my new philosophy and strategies. I also would like to thank many Simba fans who turned up to support their team,” Oliviera said after recording his second straight victory. He further hailed his charges for the good work rate despite missing nine regular players on the day saying they showed off a spirited fight worth to be praised. From 21 games, Simba have now claimed 50 points to cement their second place on the log and will host Singida Big Stars in their next fixture at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on February 3rd. On his part, Liogope acknowledged the good performance of his players saying they did not deserve a defeat but rather a win or a draw. “We played good football throughout the match and dominated well the encounter against Simba, but only one slight mistake committed before the end of the first half cost us dearly. “Staging such competitive performance versus a big team of Simba caliber gives us belief to do well in our next match when we face a side of our own level as such, our focus is on the next league assignment,” he remarked. It was a second loss for them after a 2-0 upset from Geita Gold in their previous match at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita hence have thrown away 6 points. They remain in the Tanzanian capital to welcome Azam at Jamhuri Stadium on February 4th in another tough assignment which they have to win in order to get back on the track.