PREMIER League teams continue to scale up their respective squads ahead of its resumption on January 13th this year when the 20th round will be staged. With ten games remaining before the season climaxes, every team is aware that not much time is spared for them hence collecting maximum points remains the order of the day. It has been a quiet period at all league hosting venues across the country as the league is still paused to pave way for the 2023 Mapinduzi Cup in Zanzibar. However, Tanzania Prisons, Mbeya City, Mtibwa Sugar and Geita Gold are the four sides in the Premier League that have so far suffered heavy losses in the 19 played fixtures. Tanzania Prisons have failed to impress when they suffered a humiliating 7-1 loss to Simba at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam making it the biggest defeat at this stage of the league. For the Msimbazi Street Reds, the victory continued to make them superior in marksmanship as they have since converted 47 goals more than any other team in the race. They are now ten goals clear over their closest challengers, Young Africans who have scored 37 goals whereas Azam take  the third place with 33 goals in the bag. On the other hand, Mbeya City went down 6-1 to Azam at Azam Complex in the city, that was the former’s first major upset from the Ice Cream makers ever since they began to meet in the league. Furthermore, Simba hammered Geita Gold 5-0 and Mtibwa Sugar 5-0 to continue with a record of scoring more goals and without doubt, the Msimbazi street giants are invincible when it comes to pumping in goals. According to the available schedule, on January 13th, Kagera Sugar will host KMC at Manungu Complex in Morogoro for a solo 20th round opening match with both teams losing their previous battles. On January 14th, Geita Gold will play Dodoma Jiji and Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita while Namungo entertain the bottom placed Polisi Tanzania at Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi. The match between Coastal Union and Ruvu Shooting is pegged at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on January 15th with each side eager to collect maximum points.