THE modern residential houses being constructed by the National Housing Corporation (NHC) in Dar-es-salaam City are being grabbed at an alarming rate by the majority of Tanzanians who are wishing to become house owners. Some buyers are reportedly paying for the houses even before the completion of the project. NHC, which is the state-owned real estate developer, is building a number of affordable housing units at the Tanganyika Packers grounds at Kawe section of Dar-es-salaam City. Dubbed the Samia Housing Scheme (SHC), the project entails the construction of 5,000 modern houses at the cost of 466 bn/-. A total of 560 housing units have been planned for the initial phase of the project being executed at Kawe Ward in the city. So far, more than 320 units have already been sold to eager house owners who have been paying for the properties right from the construction stage. “As of January 08, 2023, a total of 321 houses were already purchased, which is equivalent to 57 per cent, and we have remained with at least 239 houses in the selling list,” informed the NHC’s Public Affairs and Information Manager Muungano Saguya, during an interview with the ‘Daily News’ here in Dodoma. With an impressive purchasing trend of an average of 37 units per week since November 01, last year when NHC officially opened the window for the purchasing of the structures, Mr Saguya expressed optimism that the remaining houses would shortly be bought. “Initially, the project was intended to construct 400 houses under different 10 group flats but following an increasing demand, we decided to increase the number to at least 560 in order to serve more Tanzanians,” he expressed. Mr Saguya further insisted: “So far, studio units have been sold out, and we remained with two and three bedroomed houses, whose discounted price will expire on October 31, 2030.” With a patriotic spirit to enable common Tanzanians to afford owning modern residential houses, the Information manager assured that the houses were being sold at reasonable prices. “After finalising the first phase, we’re subsequently anticipating to embark on the project for the implementation of the second phase at Kawe, seeking to build more houses,” he added. Regarding the SHS project, the NHC spokesperson said a greater percentage of the houses (50 per cent) would be built in Dar es Salaam while 20 per cent of the same would be constructed in the country’s capital—Dodoma and that the remaining 30 per cent would be taken to other regions.