TANZANIA has received 343bn/- from the World Bank for the implementation of land titling and tenure security improvement programme in 16 Mainland regions. The project will be implemented in five years in 41 councils within Coast, Simiyu, Tanga, Iringa, Geita, Tabora, Mara, Shinyanga, Kigoma, Mbeya, Dodoma, Kilimanjaro, Songwe, Ruvuma, Katavi and Arusha regions. Opening the stakeholders’ meeting held in Dodoma recently to discuss the implementation of the project Deputy Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development Ridhiwani Kikwete said that the government expects that until its completion the project will have created more than one million job opportunities, including providing additional skills to more than 1.6 million people. “This project aims at improving the security of land ownership for planning, surveying and registering 2.5 million land possession tittles which include  1 million certificate of title deeds, 1 million urban residential licences and 500,000 customary possession tittle deeds in rural areas,” said Ridhiwani. “Through this project all pieces of land including farms and residential areas will be identified and re allocated so as to be given title deeds  and establish an integrated electronic land record keeping system (ILMIS) in Regions’ and Councils Land Offices that will be maintained and connected to  electronic system” he added. Ridhiwani also said that Tanzania is among the countries with intensive rural and urban development activities as well as high increase of population that lead to high demand of well-planned, managed and secured land. The increase in demand for surveyed land also leads to urban development while village centres now change into townships and townships graduating into cities.  This, ultimately, propels land conflicts among people. He said cognisant of the development in land sector the Ministry of Land has been making improvements in some of the land laws, policy and land sector services as well as designing various programmes and projects that involve planning, surveying , ownership programme, formalisation of settlements built arbitrarily and the project to improve land titling and tenure security. On his part, Permanent Secretary from the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development Dr Allan Kijazi said that the project is the largest in the land sector to be facilitated by the World Bank in the Sub Saharan countries. Dr Kijazi said that the aim of the project, whose implementation will end in 2027, is to improve land titling   in the country. “The agreement for the implementation of this project was signed between the government and the World Bank in February last year,” he said. The representative of the World Bank Nicholaus Ole Soikan has advised the government to effectively implement the project as they are closely monitoring how the project is being implemented.