IN efforts to provide professional training in music and dance field to the youth, Muda Africa academy has made a huge leap in achieving that target. Whereas at the end of every month, the organisation located in Kijitonyama, Dar es Salaam has been training students who have been performing well on the stage and watched by various people including the cultural stakeholders. Muda Africa is a non-profit organisation that offers training to Tanzanian youths with music and dance talents. Additionally, the training institution believes that contemporary dance cultivates the individual and collective spirit of creativity, trust, cooperation, discipline, and openness to change. These fundamental values and skills will help the youth of Tanzania become agents of positive change in society. Muda Africa works closely with Cordat University from Netherland whereby recently they organised a music and dance concert that conveyed a message on the elimination of gender-based violence (GBV) in the community using the work of arts. The concert also aimed at empowering youths to become financially independent through their blessed talents. The concert involved various arts stakeholders. The Spanish Ambassador Jorge Moragas, Artistic Director from the organisation, Ian Mwaisunga attended the event. It was a bright day as the show was being performed with a large number of girls on the stage; this describes the contribution of young girls in educating society and earning income. On that day, the Ambassador said that he is delighted to support the work done by the young girls. He moreover, added that as Tanzania and Spain have built a long-term relationship, it has led them to support the work done by the young girls. Similarly, he said that he managed to work with the national museum and he got a lot of experience from Tanzanian culture. On his part, the Artistic Director, Mwaisunga said the aim of starting the organisation is to empower girls who have music and dance talents so as they can fulfill their dream. He stressed that since the institute has started, the training has reached 40 students and some of them performed on Friday night. Further, he said that they award certificates to graduates who complete their first, second and third year in music and dance training. He insisted the parents and guardians to bring the young girls with music and dance talents so that they can be registered and be part of the training course. Ester Samwel, who was one among the dancers who performed on the stage, urged the young girls with talents to register themselves at the institute and earn their own income, whereas they will refrain from violence. She called on girls with the talent to show up and insisted parents to support girls’ way forward so they can reach their goals. “I call on all young girls with music and dance talent to show up and parents should support them, ’’she said Talking to ‘Daily News’ the Academy’s creative teacher Robert Ngoroma said having the children being trained has led them to learn more than one culture which increases their creativity. He added that since the inception of the platform, this is the second time the young girls are performing this kind of show which involves a mix of local students and others from abroad aiming at educating the public about various issues.