GEITA Gold Mining Limited (GGML) extended its sponsorship agreement for Geita Gold Football Club at a value of TZS 800million on 16 December 2022. GGML gained exclusive rights as the Club’s major sponsor for all matches and events related to the TFF’s 2022-2023 NBC Premier League Season pursuant towards this agreement. During the 2020/21 season, Geita Gold Football Club accomplished a number of objectives including participation in international matches. Geita Gold, who were competing in the African Confederation Cup for the first time in the club’s existence, after placing fourth in the NBC Premier League the previous season. During the signing ceremony at the Magogo headquarters of the Geita Town Council, GGML Managing Director Terry Strong stated that the signed deal made GGML the primary sponsor of the Geita Gold Football Club “Last season, GGML agreed to sponsor Geita Gold Football Club with TZS 500 million; however, for 2022, our sponsorship package has been increased to TZS 800 million.” As mentioned in the MOU, GGML would prefer this package to facilitate the final purchase of the Club’s bus, team meals, and sports equipment. We expect that our sponsorship will facilitate the team’s participation in the Tanzania Premier League for the 2022-2023 season, as well as other club activities,” he stated. The Geita District Commissioner, Honorable Wilson Shimo, who was the guest of honor at the signing event, was pleased to see the two sides sign the agreement since it will have a positive influence in Geita. “Geita Gold Football Club is a reflection and symbol of Geita’s positive qualities. The team has successfully branded our district and region. Everyone is now aware of the geographical location of our region, he said, urging the two parties to consider creating a sports academy in Geita in order to unleash the talents of young people. Zahara Michuzi, director of the Geita Town Council, praised GGML’s devotion to the Geita Gold Football Club. “GGML’s support in this club has had a significant impact. The passion and effort of the players are the result of GGML’s investment. We sincerely appreciate the support,” she stated. 