HEALTH expert at Sekou Toure Mwanza Regional Referral Hospital have cautioned against unsafe abortion, noting that the act endangers kidney. As the country has outlawed the abortion, women and girls, mostly in peripheral areas do abortions with supervision from unprofessional individuals. Such situation makes them experience high bleeding; unnoticeable the blood gets in the uterus instead of coming out. “Expectants might also face this challenge after baby delivery. That is why they have to spend some hours in hospital before being discharged, to let experts monitor the bleeding status,” Kidney Health Expert at Sekou Toure, Dr Ezekiel Petro, told the Daily News over the weekend. Normally, he explained, over 20 per cent of the blood pumped by the heart goes to the kidney. Thus, when there is a blood leakage somewhere in a human body, the amount of blood to the kidney reduces. The kidney will sense this shortfall and send signals to the heart. The heart keeps on pumping, but if the amount is consistently minimal for three (pumping) trips, then the kidney starts failing, said Dr Petro. “No matter how long the leakage takes place, what affects the kidney is how big the blood loss is,” he elaborated. Other factors that can cause kidney complications are some long term diseases like blood pressure, hepatitis, diabetes and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). He encouraged the members of the public to have health checkups after every three months. Once diagnosed with kidney fail symptoms, the patients will be advised to avoid drugs like diclofenac, diclopar and brufen types of painkillers. Dr Petro added that use of herbs is also completely discouraged to those patients, since they (herbs) within the shortest time damage the kidney. Again, he added, such patients are to avoid some foods, such as red meat and beans, since they also seriously affect the kidney. He urged all members of the community to have kidney health checkups, at least once a year, to avoid or control the complications at an early stage. It was further noted that once kidney failure has already taken place, nothing more but only dialysis services to the victim, whose (dialysis) costs are quite hight compared to voluntary checkups.