PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed District Commissioners (DCs) and Regional Medical Officers (RMOs) to effectively supervise ethics of civil servants in the health sector so that funds allocated to them serve all Tanzanians equally. Mr Majaliwa said employees in the health sector should be supervised to ensure that they provide services in accordance with the ethics, rules and guidelines of the sector. The Premier made the directives on Sunday during his meeting with Ruvuma Regional leaders at Songea Municipality. “President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan has continued to ensure that the government provides funds for the construction of health infrastructures, such as purchase of medicines and medical equipment….so, the mission should be reflected in the quality of services provided by employees in the health sector,” he noted. He also instructed the District Commissioners to supervise the availability of medicines from the Medical Store Department (MSD) and Tanzania’s Health Basket Fund (HBF) as the President Dr Samia provides funds for the purchase of more drugs. “We do not want to hear complaints, the government every month provides funds for the purchase of medicines, the District Commissioners should take care of this,” he insisted. In  a related development, Mr Majaliwa instructed the DCs in collaboration with District Executive Directors and Education Officers to supervise implementation of President Dr Samia’s vision of free education from the Primary to Advanced Level secondary education, especially by visiting schools and inspecting admission forms so that they are satisfied that no arbitrary contributions  are incurred. Equally, he ordered for the supervision of social welfare activities including economic activities for small, medium and large-scale businesses people. Adding: “We must manage the economic trends in our communities, the activities that generate income for the people, we must manage and strengthen them, we must evaluate whether we are doing well or not, and we must focus on all areas, including rural areas.” Elaborating, the Premier tasked the council leaders countrywide to ensure they address challenges facing citizens and embrace their participations in the projects, noting that by explaining to them the meaning and purposes of the schemes, they will own them. He added: “Everything that the government is doing in the communities through the media and public meetings, must reach the nationals. We must understand their concerns and be ready to solve their problems.”