HEADING for a peak of the Zanzibar Revolution this week, the Isles government here insisted to continue to construct and upgrade sports arenas that match the status of the 59 years of the revolution. This was remarked yesterday by President Hussein Ali Mwinyi when laying the foundation stone at Matumbaku sports grounds in Unguja Urban West District managed by Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF). President Mwinyi said the government will build sports arenas in districts, and regions and upgrade others like Alabama and Maisara to the desired standards so as to enable young people to play in good and safe environments. During the event, President Mwinyi said the sports sector will be his priority because he wants to see all sports arenas in the Isles have a similar standard to Matumbaku Stadium. Adding, he said the government’s goal is to ensure that sports are given a top priority and insisted that the government will invest in that area. “We don’t want to see young people playing in muddy or dusty grounds, that’s why we have decided to change this compound and I am relieved to see that the step reached so far is good and I hope that in a short time, we will complete what we were supposed to complete,” he said. Speaking about the Matumbaku Stadium, President Mwinyi said the stadium should not only be hosting football but other sports activities as well including basketball, volleyball, handball, and netball. Additionally, President Minyi said the construction of the stadiums is one of the implementations of the CCM Manifesto and the endeavour aims to have  modern stadiums that can stage tournaments under floodlights. In retrospect, President Mwinyi has congratulated the JKU for a commendable job on the project and asked them to complete it on time by including car parking areas. On his side, the Second Vice-President Hemed Suleiman Abdullah asked the leaders and residents of Zanzibar to speak the same language of development and asked the executives and managers of the project to ensure they complete them on time so that the people can continue to enjoy the fruits of the revolution. Also, the Minister for Information, Tourism, Youth and Sports Tabia Maulid Mwita added that the construction of the arenas  is an exemplary step because the funds came from the  government.