THE MastaBata Kote-Kote edition of the NMB Bank reward campaign to promote the use of its digital payment cards is nearing conclusion after conducting the last monthly draw yesterday in Tanga. The second monthly raffle saw some prizes being won by the 50 lucky winners amounted to some 52m/- was held at the NMB Madaraka Branch along Market Street in Tanga City. Equally, around 3m/- Boxer motorcycle was won in the draw and some 49 more customers pocketed a cash prize of 1m/ each-. The top lender debuted the MastaBata campaign series in 2018 to drive increased use of NMB Mastercard and NMB Mastercard QR amongst its customers when making payments and purchases. The digital finance promotion augurs well with the national financial inclusion agenda and the government’s efforts to promote a less cash economy and cashless society as stipulated in Tanzania Vision 2025 development blueprint. Speaking before yesterday’s draw, NMB Northern Zone Manager Dismas Prosper said like the whole idea, MastaBata Kote-Kote has successfully delivered the desired output, which is to mobilize customers to undertake more digital transactions. “Today, we are picking the second batch of the 49 monthly winners of cash, which is 1m/- for each of them, and one winner of motorcycles. We will also be handing over the Boxer won in the last weekly draw to its winner,” said the NMB Northern Zone Manager Dismas Prosper. He called on their customers to do more digital payments and transact more digitally to increase their chances of winning the remaining prizes, including the grand finale’s reward which is a fully paid four-day holiday trip to Dubai for seven winners and their partners. According to him, those who start banking with NMB now are also eligible to scoop the prizes still available for grabs in the over 300m/- digital economy competition, which is scheduled to culminate before the end of this month. The MastaBata Kote-Kote campaign was launched on October 28 to also reward loyal NMB customers and as part of the lender’s policy to give back part of its earnings to society. When the seventh weekly draw was held last week in Dar es Salaam, already 511 customers had won various prizes worth over 128m/-. Mr Dismas said that in the weekly raffles, 75 winners pocket 100,000/- each and the luckiest of them all wins a Boxer. Before yesterday’s event, nine motorbikes had been won, seven in the weekly raffles and two in the first monthly draw that was held in Mwanza. With today’s one, the number surges to 10 valued at over 30m/-. Three more will be won in the remaining weekly draws. Elibariki Sengasenga, an inspector from the Gaming Board of Tanzania said throughout the weekly campaigns and the previous monthly campaign, the NMB Masta Bata kote-kote draws have put fairness on high priority. The MastaBata series, which is a joint effort of NMB and digital payments giant Mastercard International of the US traded as MastaBata in season one. Thereafter it was called MastaBata Sio Kawaida and then dubbed MastaBata – KivyakoVyako. The ongoing campaign’s Kote Kote tag means NMB digital payment cards can be conveniently used to make transactions and withdraw cash inside and outside Tanzania.