YOUNG Africans and Azam decorate the 21st round Premier League fixtures as they face Ruvu Shooting and Singida Big Stars respectively in two epic matches today. Yanga are at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam to host Ruvu Shooting  eyeing to stamp success over the bottom-placed side with the latter still staggering to get their balance in the contest. It has been a tough ride for Mbwana Makata’s side that from their 20 matches, they have only managed to record three wins, five draws and 12 losses to grab 14 points in the process. At a pre-match briefing yesterday in Dar es Salaam, Yanga’s Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze reiterated that they expect a tough game regardless the fact that their opponents sit at the base of the log. “Ruvu Shooting always give us a difficult match whenever we face them as such; we are aware that it is going to be a tough encounter as each team salivate for the important win. “But, we have had good preparations and I believe that the boys will showcase good performance which in the end will yield positive results,” said Kaze who eyes to win the second league title at the club. He further pointed out that as the season nears its final destination, getting maximum points from each game is the order of the day and they will embrace every match like a final encounter. Responding to a question as to whether the newly recruited centre-back Mamadou Doumbia will be featured in today’s match, Kaze said it will depend on his fitness level. “All paperworks for him to play in the country are ready, and we just want to make full assessment of him before permitting him to play,” he said. On his part, Ruvu Shooting Assistant Coach Frank Msese also disclosed that to their side, they have prepared well for the game and every member in his squad is looking forward to claim good results. “We are playing against a high-profile team with many quality players but that does not scare us, we are here to play football and hopefully, after the normal period of play, positive results will fall our way,” Msese said. He added that they are going to approach the game with much respect to Yanga who are currently leading the marathon and that all precautions will be taken into consideration. Elsewhere today, Singida Big Stars have a chance to equal Azam’s 43 points on the standings if they win  as the duo lock horns at Liti Stadium in Singida. Currently, Azam are third on the log with 43 points after playing 20 matches while Singida Big Stars have 40 points from the same number of outings, hence the 90-minute play, will determine who deserve all three points.