A TOTAL of 24,000 people are expected to benefit from Majohe water project which is being implemented at a cost of 4.2bn/-. The project is being implemented by the Dar es Salaam Water and Sanitation Authority (DAWASA), and is expected to be completed in June, this year as per contractual terms. Briefing journalists on the project progress, DAWASA Ukonga Regional Project Manager, Engineer Ibrahim Kazumba, said that the project has reached a good stage noting that so far 16 kilometers of the pipeline have been laid down. He added that, this week the contractor also laid down two- and three-inch pipelines which cover two kilometers. “The implementation of this project is progressing well; we have managed to build a network of 16 kilometers of pipeline. We are working to complete the remaining part,” said Engineer Kazumba. He noted that the project is among the authority’s priorities because it is being executed using its own funds. Engineer Kazumba noted that the project started in the 2022/23 financial year and is going to benefit approximately 24,000 residents in the Majohe Area. “The areas which will benefit from this project include  Ngozoma, Kwaharisi, Majohe B, Majohe Songas, Kwa Diwani and Bombambili,” he said. He also mentioned other areas which will benefit from the project as Majohe Kichangani, Majohe Rada, Viwege, Bombambili and Kivule. “We expect to complete the project in June this year where many residents will start getting clean water services,” said Engineer Kazumba. On his part, the Majohe Ward Executive Officer Ramadhan Mayala said the project is crucial to them because many residents need clean water and they are currently using well water. He said that these efforts are commendable because it will help to end water woes facing the residents. On her part, a resident of Majohe, Zuhura Shabani, said that water services for them have been a dream for many years because they have never received services at all. “We are grateful for the efforts by DAWASA to bring water services to this area because it is our expectation that many residents will be assured of reliable water supply,” she explained. Paschal Richard, a resident of Majohe Kichangani Street, said the project will be a permanent solution to water woes in the area. “It is a good step that DAWASA has made to implement this project because if it is completed it will be a great help to many citizens in our area,” said Richard.