WATER Minister Jumaa Aweso has instructed the Pangani River Basin Development Authority to launch an urgent inquiry into human activities along the Zigi River and take legal action against those responsible for endangering water supply for the population of Tanga and some areas of Muheza Township. Mr Aweso made the instruction when he unexpectedly paid a visit to the Tanga Urban Water and Sanitation Authority (Tanga UWASA) on Friday after the city’s population endured a three-day severe water deficit never see before since the water utility was established several year ago. The Mowe Water Treatment Plant was shut down due to a spike in turbidity that they were unable to control immediately in order to ensure a smooth and safe supply of water to Tanga, said Tanga UWASA authorities. Aweso underlined that the Pangani Basin Water Development Authority’s main obligation was to protect the primary water sources under its jurisdiction and that they should go out and personally see what is happening before acting immediately. “Playing with laptops in the office will never result in the preservation of the water source. To ensure that the water runs smoothly, you must walk outside and observe what is happening, he advised. He gave Segule Segule, the Director of the Pangani River Basin, instructions to remain in Tanga and gather his team in order to conduct a quick, thorough examination along the river up to the starting places to identify individuals who are involved with the water sources. We cannot permit some individuals to destroy the sources by mining for minerals and gemstones, he said. Awesso further lambasted the Tanga UWASA for what he called a grave error in failing to alert the public in a timely manner and allowing for speculative theories regarding the cause of the unexpected water shortage. “You have party, civil, and council leaders. What kind of sin is it to involve party and civic leaders so that they can give the public the correct information? Clearly, there was a lapse in public relations, right?” he questioned. Taking advantage of the occasion, he pledged that this would never happen again and announced that he would meet with the city’s political and civic leaders as well as the board and management of the water service. “Those proven to have played a part in the disintegration of the situation will face disciplinary action. You must get organized, or we will assist you,” Aweso warned. He instructed Dr Ali Fungo, the board chairman of Tanga UWASA, to see to it that the utility’s reputation is upheld. Segule Segule, the Director of the Pangani Basin, reported that measures had been taken to conserve water sources, including education campaigns to raise awareness and legal actions against violators.