THE inauguration of Emerald Zanzibar Resort & Spa, by The Emerald Collection new resort has once again signified that Zanzibar is now reaping the benefits of investments in tourism industry, President Hussein Mwinyi has said. Emerald Zanzibar Resort & Spa Deluxe Hotel by The Emerald Collection, opened its doors last month but it was officially opened yesterday. The property is the first venture outside of the Maldives for the family-run luxury hospitality group, renowned for its Deluxe All-Inclusive Formula in the Maldives, and now, in Tanzania. Speaking during the event, President Mwinyi said job creations for young people, farmers to get farm produce, and entrepreneurs in food catering are among the many benefits people of Zanzibar are already gaining from the ongoing investments in the tourism industry. “The government is also getting money from tourism, which contributes about 30 per cent to GDP and more than 80 per cent of the foreign currency,” said President Mwinyi, when opening a five-star hotel facility in Kijini Village, Matemwe, Unguja North Region. He appealed to the people here, particularly the youth including university graduates and women, to make the best use of the opportunities from the investment projects such as hotels available in their respective areas. Dr Mwinyi said that investment opportunities should not only benefit foreigners, but natives have a great chance to use them and get rid of poverty and other economic challenges in life. “My fellow citizens, there are still many benefits you can gain from the investments. Get engaged in fishing, agriculture and other businesses, so that you sell the products to the hotels and other establishments in your areas,” he said. He further said that currently both local and foreign investors have placed great trust in the government by investing in huge capital projects, urging people to continue supporting them by collaborating with them in raising the country’s economy, along with maintaining peace and stability. Dr Mwinyi said that his government is committed to ensure job opportunities benefit natives and that the policy explains that 95 per cent of the jobs created by investors should be taken by the local people. “I ask all Zanzibaris to show love to investors because it is win-win collaboration,” he said. In his speech at the hotel opening ceremony, President Mwinyi also re-emphasised that the government is implementing promises made to solve major social challenges such as water shortage, and poor roads. “In fact, during my tenure, most of the roads (measuring more than 277 Kilometres) including the feeder or internal roads will be constructed to tarmac level,” he said. He promised the people of Matemwe coastal village that the current bad state of road Kibuyuni/Kijini to Nungwi will be addressed in the near future. The Zanzibar Minister of State- Office of the President (Labour, Economy and Investment) Mr Mudrik Ramadhan Soraga said the eighth phase government under Dr Mwinyi has given priority and special importance to the investment sector with the aim of raising the country’s economy and living standards of people. The Executive Director- Zanzibar Investment Promotion Authority (ZIPA) Mr Sharif Ali Sharif said that in the past two-years under Dr Mwinyi, Zanzibar has recorded 223 investment projects compared to the previous six-years (2015-2020) with only 203 projects. He said ZIPA’s expectation is to ensure that all free economic zones, Unguja and Pemba are completed with proper infrastructure to continue to accommodate investors. He said online applications are being improved for efficiency providing services. The Emerald Resort and SPA, CEO Mr Aldo Scarapicchia praised the efforts of the President Mwinyi for promoting investment resulting in job creation for the local young people, and that his management will continue working with the government.