MINISTER of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Ms Angela Kairuki has invited South Korean investors to Tanzania in the sectors of Tourism, Energy, Minerals and Blue Economy to grow together for a win-win situation. Ms Kairuki made the remarks in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday when speaking with four members of South Korea’s national assembly who visited Tanzania to discuss more ways of promoting cooperation. She said that her ministry was ready to prepare all needed information and designate land for investment which would be used by the Korean investors. “May I use this opportunity to ask you to help market Tanzania’s investment opportunities back to your country. We have different minerals and gemstones, the potentiality of producing more energy, tourism, ICTs and education. These are opportunities available for investment to Korean investors,” she said. Ms Kairuki went on to entice the Korean visitor, by saying that Tanzania has a vast land suitable for agriculture and other economic activities; her ministry was ready to designate special land needed by the investors. She also called for South Korea to promote cooperation exchange by establishing sister cities and towns, where people from duo countries can share experiences and expertise on how to grow better. For his part, the leader of the delegation of the South Korean National Assembly Mr Park Jeung said that he was ready to donate about 72,000 US dollars for financing one goat per each of the 1,000 poor households project to improve nutrition through milk and meat as well as economic upliftment. “This amount will be channelled through a Civil Society Organisation, Good Neighbours Tanzania where identified families will be provided with goats with the condition that the first breed will be given to other poor families,” said Jeung. On the side of investment opportunities, Mr Jeung said that a film on Kilimanjaro Mountain is being prepared by South Korean celebrities who toured the country recently. After the film is out, according to him, it will be used to market Africa’s highest mountain and other tourism opportunities to his countrymen.