TIME and again, Tanzania has witnessed an increase in the number of foreign investors coming into the country, simply because there are all sorts of investment opportunities to exploit, which in a nutshell can be seen in vast land for agricultural produce, peace and tranquility as well as minerals to mine among others. Still the country wants Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) to allow transfer of technology to the locals-particularly in the form of new varieties of capital inputs. This also comes with the knowledge that recipients of FDI often gain employee training in the course of operating the new businesses, which contributes to human capital development in the host country. With the above background, the government deserves all sorts of support in the wake of continuing to simplify investment procedures in the country in efforts to lure more investors. For instance, in preparation for the establishment of a One-Stop Centre to easily facilitate the issuance of investment permits, seven key governmental agencies that offer the services (read catering for investors) are now smoothly operating and in turn raise would-be investors’ morale to camp in Tanzania. In this wake, it is upon Tanzanian ambassadors abroad to keep on wooing investors, because the sky will be the limit for any investor, who would opt to give the country a trial. Take for instance, key institutions-the Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA), Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), Labour Department, National Identification Authority (NIDA), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and Immigration are all ready and coordinating in partnership so that the country becomes host to investors and in turn create jobs to the locals. Looked at keenly that is what is in the interest of the sixth phase government under the stewardship of President Samia Suluhu Hassan to an extent that any barrier(s), which might backpedal investment climate in the country would be eliminated. Equally, a number of initiatives by President Samia to woo investors into the country, including her trips abroad are paying and that is the government Tanzanians want. This is another opportunity for Tanzanians to exploit in thinking outside the box and engage in modern business that pays instead of localising brains to think of selling wares in the streets. This country is blessed with a lot of fresh agricultural and animal organic products which are required say in United Arab Emirates, and the market is in plenty-what remains is supporting the government to keep on opening more doors in the foreign countries for the nationals to exploit in terms of doing business.