THE prosecution in the case facing nine teachers who are charged with examination leakage and forgery has requested Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court to grant more time so that it can complete investigation of the case. The prosecution, led by State Attorney Yousuf Aboud, told Principal Resident Magistrate Pamela Mazengo that the investigation into the case   has not been completed thus they need more time for completion at the assignment. Aboud asked the court to set another date for mention. Following the prosecution plea, Magistrate Mazengo adjourned the case until February 6 this year. The accused in the case are Johnson Ondieka, Patrick Chawawa, Theresia Chitanda, Elinami Sarakikya, Joyce Nkomola, Lloyd Mpande, Ronald Odongo, Docras Muro and Alcherous Malinzi. In the first count, it is alleged that the defendants on diverse dates between October 2 and 12  this year, within  Dar es Salaam, through social media platform namely WhatsApp and Telegram, communicated and caused leakage of 2022 Standard Seven National examination papers to unauthorised person contrary to section (5) 1 and 2 (1) of the national security act. [Cap 47 RE: 2022). In the second count, it is alleged that, Alcharaus Malinzi on diverse dates between October 2 and 12 this year, within Dar es Salaam, with intent to defraud did make false documents to wit 2022 Standard Seven National Examination paper titled “MTIHANI WA URAIA” purporting to show that the said examination papers was genuinely issued by National Examination Council while he knew it to be false. Meanwhile, the prosecution in the case facing  former Assistant Clerk of Police ,Lydia Ngua and her three colleagues, who are facing a charge of fraudulently obtaining money using the name of the former Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Lazaro Mambosasa, has asked  the court to postpone  the hearing  of the case. State attorney, Sylvia Mitanto, made the plea before the Principal Resident Magistrate, Ramadhani Rugemalila, in the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court when the case came for hearing. Mitanto claimed that the case came for hearing but the witness had not arrived, so he asked the court to set another date for hearing the case. Magistrate Rugemalila then adjourned the case until February 6 this year when it will come for hearing. Other defendants in the case are entrepreneur, Mbelembe Ausi, a businessman, Shabani Hamisi and a driver, Herry Chambo. In the case, it is alleged that on January 4, 2021 in the morning, the defendants went to Said Abdallah’s house in Tabata Kinyerezi, Dar es Salaam, and told Abdallah that they were police officers sent by Mambosasa to arrest him. It is alleged that they told him that he is accused of making fake certificates and that his case file is at the police station in Mbweni and it has also been delivered to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). After telling him that they arrested Abdallah and started searching him, they took money from him and said that it would be used as an exhibit in court. It is alleged that they put him in a car, told him that they were taking him to the police station in Mbweni, and on the way they asked him to give them 4m/-as an order from Mambosasa along with the Kinondoni Police Commander, so that they could help him. On their way to Mbweni, they allegedly threatened him with a severe beating. Abdallah then gave the defendants 570,000/- from which wasdrawn from mobile money agent. The court was also informed that Abdallah went to report to the police, where the investigation was carried out, and it was found that all the defendants were not police officers; they were not even sent by Mambosasa, and Abdallah had no case in any police station, including Mbweni. The defendants were arrested on January 13, last year, in Kivule area, Dar es Salaam, while committing the offenses.