HEALTH Ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Prof Abel Makubi has urged doctors and nurses to provide health services based on professionalism. He demanded them to keep practicing good customer care that includes the use of polite language, punctuality and appropriateness while attending patients. Prof Makubi said the country’s advancement in provision of health services largely depends on healthcare providers, particularly nurses and doctors’ capability and willingness to deliver on time-quality services in all hospitals, health centres and dispensaries. Prof Makubi made the remarks in Mwanza Region recently during a workshop designed by the health ministry to expose stakeholders on different issues related to Universal Health Coverage Bill (UHCB) which is expected to be presented to the national assembly by the end of this January. The stakeholders were from Regional Health Management Team (RHMT) and Councils Health Management Team (CHMT) which includes, Regional Medical Officer (RMO), District Medical Officers (DMO). Prof Makubi identified poor communication skills by some doctors and nurses who misinform patients by giving unclear medical prescriptions whenever needed as a drawback in achieving national high standard health services provisions. “You find a patient has undertaken a medical examination without any clear explanation to the medical testing results undertaken by a nurse or doctor, let us communicate to our patients,” he said. Adding “Some nurses and doctors have been giving medical doses by guessing, for instance you give drugs for headache and stomach ache at once for the patient who has a headache only,” wondered Prof Makubi. On the other hand, he directed Mwanza Regional Medical Officer, District Medical Officers (DMOs) among other health stakeholders to spearhead a campaign for citizen’s awareness on the UHCB, which is expected to kick off in July this year. He said citizens’ awareness of the country’s historic Universal Health Coverage Bill (UHCB) will ease its implementations which include their registration to the system after having enough information pertaining to how it will operate, the benefits and the time to which all citizens will be obliged to get registered to UHCB. Representative from President’s Office – Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-RALG), Ms Monica Julius said the government will continue creating conducive environment to all health care providers and citizens to support the UHCB functioning with enough health facilities such as CT-Scan, X-rays, Ultrasound, Medicines, expansion of hospital, dispensary, health center and employing competent health experts including doctors for development of health services delivery within the country. “Quality health services delivery is the number one government priority “she added.