THE Vice-President, Philip Mpango has called on religious leaders to desist from going against their vocation, especially by being selfish and greedy in accumulating wealth, which is causing discord in the houses of worship. Dr Mpango stated this on Sunday during the installation service of the new Bishop of the Africa Inland Church of Tanzania (AICT) Coast Diocese, Philipo Magwano. The service was held at the AICT church in Magomeni, Dar es Salaam. Speaking at the sermon led by Bishop Zackayo Bugota, Dr Mpango cautioned religious leaders to desist from fermenting conflicts within their institutions, adding that misunderstandings paint unpleasant image of religious establishments. He added: “The world we live in today has seen a wave of some religious leaders going against their calling; some have developed a desire to accumulate wealth illegally or lust for power and thus causing confusion and discord in houses of worship.” Instead, Dr Mpango called upon religious and cultural leaders to take a leading role in ethical upbringing of children and youths, especially by imparting to them with moral values to ensure the future of the nation and its people is bestowed in safe hands. The VP as well took issues with increasing cases of violence meted on children, both girls and boys, and directed state organs to intensify the fight against the immoral acts in the society. “If the young population is well steered on our traditions and customs in addition to adhering to religious teachings, they will eventually become God-fearing and this will eradicate many vices being committed in the country.” Dr Mpango also used the occasion to remind religious leaders to speak against corruption, graft and economic sabotage in their houses of worship by educating their followers on negative impact of the evil acts. He also insisted on the importance of good nutrition along with the importance of physical exercise, environmental hygiene, and the importance of hard work among youths. In supporting the construction of the church, he personally contributed 10m/- for the building, and urged those accompanying him to also do so. Earlier, Bishop Magwano asked his fellow religious leaders to help the government by preaching and teaching the correctness of the gospel. “Our government, under the strong leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan, wants Tanzanians to live in justice, peace, happiness, love and attain real development. I ask my fellow faith leaders to cooperate in preaching and teaching the true gospel of Jesus Christ and shun away from entertaining fake preaching,” he said. He also promised to cooperate with the government in building the nation’s prosperity. In a related development, he challenged parents and guardians to send their children to school, noting that the government has constructed enough classrooms to accommodate them countrywide. On her part, the Kinondoni District Administrative Secretary (DAS), Stela Msoje, representing the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Amos Makala, emphasised the importance of maintaining peace, unity, and love for the country to continue registering development progress.