ZANZIBAR government is planning to construct its offices in one easily accessible centre out of the Stone Town. The objective is to improve efficiency in serving the people and improve the working environment for public servants. According to the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Lands and Housing Development, Dr Mngereza Mzee Miraji, the ministry has already come up with a design on how the new government offices centre would look like and optional land areas. “In preliminary planning, we have identified some potential areas for our new government city. It includes Fumba, Kisakasaka, Dunga, and Tunguu,” Dr Mijari said after a meeting with officers from the Presidential Delivery Bureau (PDB). He said that the ministry had consulted the public offices on re-allocation move. Most of the government offices are situated in the historical Stone Town, especially in old buildings with insufficient space for work. The PS thanked the PDB for organising a joint session with the ministry for the purpose of improving efficiency and receiving updates on implementation of government projects including plans for new allocation for the government offices. Chief Executive Officer of the Zanzibar Housing Corporation (ZHC) Mwanaisha Ali Said, who also attended the meeting, said that her office was ready to be fully engaged in the project. However she said ZHC still faces several challenges that include lack of funds, and skilled staff. PDB Head of Communications and Information Dr Mohamed Mansour Nassor emphasized that, they are committed to speed up and improve service delivery to the people. He said the session with the lands ministry was a continuation of the PDB’s meetings with various ministries with the aim of improving services delivery. Mr Mansour said the government is monitoring the implementation of projects to understand challenges and come up with solutions to achieve the objectives that President Hussein Mwinyi wants to see under his leadership. When launching the PDB recently, President Mwinyi directed all ministries, departments and public institutions to work as a team towards the common goal. “PDB is here not to take over your tasks but to identify obstacles, identify resource scarcity and accelerate implementation of development programmes for wananchi,” Dr Mwinyi told government officers. He said the government has identified four priority sectors—blue economy; tourism; infrastructure; and social development—for speedy and efficient implementation of the 2020 general election pledges to ‘wananchi’.