THERE are high expectations for more girls to join secondary education with the ongoing construction of Mwanza Regional Girls Boarding Secondary School now at 75 per cent, with the project expected to be completed by March, this year. The school will encompass both Ordinary and Advanced Level studies. The Mwanza Girls Regional Boarding Secondary School located at Magu District is constructed at the cost of 4bn/- which was allocated by the government to Mwanza Region in March 2022. Upon completion, the school will accommodate about 1000 girls from different districts in Mwanza and nearby regions including Shinyanga, Mara, Geita and Simiyu. Magu District Engineer Gisbeth Mlelwa, who is in charge of supervising the project, told the ‘Daily News’ recently that the construction of the school started on May 13 last year to include the construction of classrooms, canteen, dormitory and administration block. He said the first ever regional girls school covering 57,000-square metres of land will be equipped with all facilities necessary for students to smoothly learn. The facilities include library, residential houses for teachers, laboratory as well as stadium for sports, all designed to help girls to realise their dreams. The project is being undertaken through the force account and has created 267 direct and indirect employment, according to Eng Mlelwa. Commenting on the progress of the project, Magu District Commissioner Salum Kalli commended Dr Samia’s government for focusing on transforming the education sector and ensuring that more girls in the country continue pursuing education. “President Samia has shown a political will to advance the education sector. She promotes equal opportunities for both female and male children. My expectation is to see many female doctors, engineers, pilots and politicians in the future,” hinted Mr Kalli. The sixth phase government is undertaking significant measures to transform education by building one regional girls secondary school in almost every region in the country. The construction started in 10 regions including Mwanza, Shinyanga, Ruvuma, Dar es salaam, Singida, Njombe, Songwe, Kagera, Lindi, and Coast Region.