RULING party CCM General Secretary Mr Daniel Chongolo has emphasised that Mwalimu Nyerere Leadership School (MJNLS) in Kibaha Town Coast Region is a vital tool in strengthening unity and building systems which can be used to bring development in the whole of the African continent. Mr Chongolo made the statement on Tuesday while officiating the first ordinary three days meeting of the Steering Committee formed by general secretaries from six parties, which jointly own the college. The parties are CCM (Tanzania) MPLA (Angola), FRELIMO (Mozambique), ANC (South Africa), ZANUPF (Zimbabwe) and SWAPO (Namibia). The Committee is responsible for the school’s supervision. “Let us keep reminding ourselves of the purpose of having this institution. One purpose among many of having this school in place is using it to develop ourselves institutionally and systematically and find right ways of bringing ourselves development and achieve economic liberation,” he stated. He continued, “You will all agree with me that having this school is yet another way of the continuation of the struggles to attain development. Expounding, he mentioned that the meeting was the outcome of the agreement the parties made during the online session they conducted November 18th , 2022, whereby they reached agreement to meet and have discussions on the development of the school. Speaking to reporters shortly after the meeting the party’s Secretary for Ideology and Publicity who is also a Member of National Executive Committee (NEC- CCM), Ms Sophia Mjema said that the meeting was expected to bring positive results which were necessary for the growth of the School. Other parties general secretaries who are attending the meeting are Dr Obert Mpofu (ZANU – PF), Comrade Sophia Shanimgwa (SWAPO), Comrade Fikile Mbalula (ANC – via online), Comrade Iasalde das Neves Adamugi Ussene- representative of the FRELIMO’s General Secretary, Ms Noluthando Mayende-Malepe – South Africa High Commissioner to Tanzania and representative of ANC General Secretary and Ms Marcelina Chijoriga- Princioal – Julius Nyerere Leadership School.