BOLT has appointed as the new regional manager for East and Southern Africa effective 1st January this year. Mr Takura Malaba takes over from Mr Kenneth Micah, who was the Regional Manager for Eastern Africa since October 2019. Speaking on his appointment, Mr Malaba said he was looking forward to continued collaboration with the regional teams to spur the growth of the Bolt business in the region. “I am honoured to have been considered for the role of Regional Manager for East and Southern Africa and I am eager to take on the challenges and opportunities it presents. My priority will be to continue growing the business in the region by championing our value propositions that focus on affordability, safety and sustainability. I believe in working collaboratively with my colleagues, partners and stakeholders to achieve results and I look forward to using my skills and expertise to contribute to the Bolt’s success and to make a positive impact in this region,” Bolt Vice President, Paddy Partridge said, “Bolt is delighted to have Takura take on the role of Regional Manager for East and Southern Africa. Since joining the business in 2021, he has done an excellent job in leading the South African market. He has steered the business and defended it against stiff competition, driven strong growth despite a difficult macroeconomic environment and effectively managed costs. He has also been instrumental in making significant progress in improving the safety and quality of our platform in the country. I am confident he will continue to do a great job in this new role,” Mr Takura is a visionary, strategic, collaborative and results-oriented leader who believes in empowering his teams to buy into the vision which will in turn lead to achieving success. He is passionate about developing strategies that lead to long-term impact whilst maintaining quality service delivery. Mr Takura joined Bolt in November 2021 as the Country Manager for ride-hailing in South Africa, where he was responsible for Strategy and Operations. Before joining Bolt, he was a Data Science Manager at Deloitte, where he focused on strategy, cloud and machine learning design and implementation. Before that role, he was a strategy and consulting manager at Accenture, where he was in charge of strategy development, strategic cost reduction and advanced analytics. Mr Takura will drive operational excellence in the region while expanding Bolt’s footprint within the East and Southern Africa markets.