YOUNG Africans coach Cedric Kaze hailed his players for a strong performance against KMKM in an ongoing Mapinduzi Cup tournament at Amaan Stadium on Tuesday. The injury-time goal by Dickson Ambundo earned the Tanzania Mainland champions vital three points that revived their hopes to qualify for the semifinal stage, but they have to beat Singida Big Stars in their last group B game today. Kaze, the Burundian tactician, told the ‘Daily News’ after the match that he was pleased with the performance of his players and they are now looking for their last game against Singida Big Stars to sail into the semis. “We commanded the game for a long period and my players showed up strong performance right from the beginning. We deserved to score many goals, we couldn’t utilise all the chances and this happens in football,” Kaze said. Kaze also hailed some of his under-20 players saying they are the future of the team and all they need is to get proper directives to blossom. “I am also pleased with our young players. They showed good game and potential. We need to give them proper directives and free them from pressure so that they may realise their potential,” he added. On the coming tournament’s fixture against Singida Big Stars Kaze said they know their opponents as one of the strongest teams in the Mainland topflight league and they are ready to face up the challenge. “For sure we know them as they are one of the strong sides and this tournament in particular. We are aware of the threat they can cause to us, but we ought to beat them to progress to the semis,” he said. On his part, KMKM head coach Hemedi Morocco said his side faced up one of the experienced sides in the country’s football and that is what decided the game. Morocco, who is also Zanzibar Heroes and Manyara Boys, the National U- 23 team coach, said his squad was short of experienced players and that was the key factor that played part in their loss to Yanga. “Right now Yanga are a very strong team in the country boosted with massive experience compared to my team. After my tactical approach at some point of the game you need experienced players to decide the match and unfortunately, we don’t have those players,” Morocco admitted. He said Yanga can go further in the tournament as he believes they will keep changing game after game.