THE Chief Court Administrator, Professor Elisante Ole Gabriel has commended President Samia Suluhu Hassan for endorsing funds for improving, renovating and building court infrastructures countrywide. Prof Gabriel issued the compliments here on Monday when he visited the ongoing law week exhibition held nationally at Nyerere Grounds. He said that through the concessional loans given by the World Bank (WB), the Sixth Phase Government has provided 207bn/- for increasing scope of access to justice for the people. “I sincerely thank the sixth phase government under the leadership of President Samia because it allocates a lot of money to make court infrastructures friendly. The funds are well spent and that the results are seen. “Court infrastructures improvement depends on the government’s facilitation, in fact, we are well empowered. Through the WB we have received 207bn/- for improving the infrastructure of our courts in the country,” said Prof Gabriel, adding that without the government’s efforts there would be a big challenge. He noted that with government’s efforts, construction of primary courts, the resident magistrate’s courts and High Court is going on at a fast pace. He stated that already six integrated centres have been built in five regions and nine others will be built by 2024. “The aim of building the integrated centres is not just to have the buildings, but to ensure that justice delivery is improved. Citizens need to create a culture of monitoring the work done by the courts because the government has made significant improvements,” said Prof Gabriel. Explaining on the unethical conducts by some of the court officials, he said the issue should not discourage Tanzanians in seeking justice from the court as an institution. “The court does not do business, it provides services. Judgments are not made arbitrarily, they are based on national laws, so people need to continue to believe in the judiciary staff that they are doing justice and if some court officials act unethically there are appropriate systems to follow to correct each other,” he said. The Deputy Secretary of the Court Service Commission, Enziel Mtei, said currently issues related to services by court employees are handled by the Commission, whose members and subordinates are specified in the Constitution and the law on court operations. He said the Court Operation Law directs to have Judges ethical committees in regional and district levels whose job is to investigate complaints against judges and other lower level court administrators. “We are here to educate the public and we will continue to provide it to ensure that citizens understand the services provided by this Commission and how they can submit their complaints to regional and district moral committee,” she said.