NMB Bank has donated health equipment worth over 26m/- to Mkonoo and Levolosi health centres in Arusha Region in support of government efforts to improve health services in the country. The Deputy Health Minister Dr Godwin Mollel said during the event to receive the health facilities at the weekend that NMB financing of noble social services has greatly helped to transform the lives of many people across the country. “The financing of medical equipment worth over 26m/- for the two health centres was required to improve the delivery of health services,” he said. Whereas Mkonoo Health Centre got 10 maternity beds and another 10 for other patients, the Levolosi Health Centre got 20 benches. Arusha Urban legislator, Mrisho Gambo said the support was a vivid example of how NMB seriously cares about people’s welfare. “With this support, you have shown that NMB is indeed a bank for Tanzanians,” the lawmaker told officials of the bank, who were led by Chief of Shared Services Nenyuata Mejooli at the event, held at Mkonoo area. Mr Gambo said the bank deserves to be supported because of its policy to share part of its proceeds with communities. In her remarks, Ms Mejooli said NMB has been allocating one per cent of its net income to finance CSR budgets for over 10 consecutive years. She said the communities are entitled to benefit from the profits because of their pivotal role in the success story of the bank. Ms Mejooli told the gathering that apart from serving the country with the widest branch network of 228 outlets, the lender also is a market leader when it comes to social investments. “NMB will continue supporting efforts of its key stakeholders in addressing challenges facing society, particularly in the realm of health services,” she noted adding that the government cannot strengthen the delivery of quality health services on its own. “In spite of the big things done by your ministry, we, as stakeholders have the responsibility to support these development efforts by supporting the communities,” she told Dr Mollel. According to her, the health sector was a priority and obligation for NMB to finance since a healthy nation augurs well for the growth and development of both its business and the whole country at large. She said the government was doing a commendable job to improve the availability of quality health services in both urban and rural Tanzania. “The support we have extended today is not the end of our partnering with the government in addressing challenges in the health sector in Arusha and across Tanzania,” Ms Mejooli added noting that their CSR support also focuses on providing relief aid during natural calamities.