THE Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, Mussa Azan Zungu has led the Run for Sight Marathon 2023 aimed at raising funds for the treatment of people with eye diseases in the Dar es Salaam. Run for Sight Marathon 2023 was held on Sunday at the Farasi grounds in Dar es Salaam and it was one way of helping people in need of treatment and are unable to get eye treatment in the Dar es Salaam region. “This race is a very important event to help the community; the funds that will be raised through this exercise will be used to run eye camps without any fees in the region of Dar es Salaam. Zungu has also called on companies and private institutions to continue supporting the efforts of President Samia Suluhu Hassan in touching the lives of Tanzanians, especially in improving their health issues. Additionally, the Deputy Speaker has also congratulated the Rotary Club of Masaki and Lalji foundation for organising the festival with the aim of helping Tanzanians and members of the Dar es Salaam community who are unable to treat eye disease. “I really congratulate these institutions for organising the race which has been very beneficial in our society, especially for those who cannot afford to go to the hospital and receive treatment,” said Zungu. The race involved different ages including young people for 21km Half Marathon for the elderly and children under 10 years old for 5 kilometres. In the 21-kilometer race that involved young people, Shumer Mohamed won the men’s race after spending 1 hour, 09 minutes and 48 seconds.  He was awarded 1m/- cash prize. The event’s runner up was Jamal Said who clocked 1:10:54:16 and he was awarded 500,000/- while Gerald Salum took the third place after clocking 1:18:03:02 and was awarded 250,000/- cash prize. On the women’s side, Grace Charles emerged the first winner of the 21km half  marathon after clocking 1:32:06. She pocketed 1m/-, the second place went to Neema Saimon who spent 1:45:29:02 and pocketed 500,000/- while Shameeza Mukhi claimed the third prize in 1:55:40:08. He bagged 250,000/- cash prize. In the elderly group, 74 year-old Ramesh Chauvan came out on top and the second place went to Zainabu Rashid who is aged 76 years. The 4-year old Christy Nyaisa won the children’s 5 km race, while second place went to 6-year old Yashvi Shah. Speaking after the event the president of the Rotary club of Masaki Akash Shah said they  registered more than 1200 runners for this Run for Sight Marathon 2023. Akashi thanked all participants of the race with the aim of helping people to get eye diseases treatment. They are Lion District 4IIC Governor, Travelport, Diamond Trust Bank, Mlimani City and Lalji foundation who have cooperated to a large extent to organise the race. Also, the Chairman of the Lalji Foundation Imtiaz Lalji has said the raised funds  will go to perform eye treatment for more than 100 residents of Dar es Salaam with eye problems for free. He also said that they expect to reach all Tanzanian regions. “To begin with, we have started with Dar es Salaam and we expect to provide treatment to more than 100 people, but our plans are to reach all regions of Tanzania, I thank all the runners and our government,” said Lalji.