MORE than 90 dogs and cats have been legally taken in by an Arusha based animal rescue organisation last year. The organisation, called ‘Mbwa wa Africa Animal Rescue’ adopted the domestic animals, in its mission of shielding cats and dogs from sufferings. “Thanks everybody for making the wise and kind choice and giving these wonderful pets a second chance in life,” the non-profit charity said in a statement availed to ‘Daily News’. According to the Charity, over 5,000 animals- 5,267 dogs and 179 cats -have been sterilised to date. We have come a long way together, but there remains a long way to go. In 2023, we envision to step up efforts to fight against rabies,” the statement read. Mbwa wa Africa Animal Rescue was founded by Sandra Kliegelhoefer and her husband, Jens Fissenebert. In 2002 Sandra, Jens, and the couple’s ten year old dog, Luca, loaded their old Land Rover and began a journey that would eventually lead them to Africa. Along the way, they stopped to care for several lost, abandoned, and injured dogs, ultimately adopting five before they settled at their current home in Usa River, Arusha, Tanzania. After realising the growing need to care for dogs in their community, Sandra and Jens established Mbwa wa Africa, a no-kill animal rescue shelter that focused on caring for animals and finding them adoptive homes. Further demand by residents of the region led Sandra and Jens to also establish a boarding kennel to care for animals whilst their owners were away. In 2015 the project was extended to include rabies vaccination campaigns, spay and neuter clinics and the first animal welfare education class was held at a local primary school. Among other things, the animal recuse home also aids in the reduction of disease, especially rabies amongst dogs and control reproductive numbers, ensure that any animal that is abused, injured or in danger   is rescued with the intent on improving its health and wellbeing as well as ensuring that once a dog has been rehabilitated and in good health it is re-homed where it will receive continual care and rehabilitation.