THE US-based ride-hailing company, Uber, has announced its comeback to Tanzania’s market after its departure in April last year. When announcing the departure last year the company said in its statement that it would resume operations after agreeing with the government. At a press conference in Dar es Salaam this week, Uber’s Head of East Africa, Mr Imran Manji said, they were excited to kick off the year by re-entering the Tanzanian market. “We commend the government for its show of support for the growth and development of the ride-hailing industry.” “It is our priority to provide a platform where drivers can make substantial earnings while providing convenient and reliable options for riders In Tanzania.” Mr Manji expounded that Uber is re-entering the market with UberX and UberXL, which will be available for riders to use across Dar es Salaam. He explained that the UberXL allows up to six riders to ride comfortably and is perfect for a trip with family and friends or for those times when they have luggage to move from one place to another. Riders will know how much their ride will cost before they hit the road with Uber’s upfront fares. Ride-hailing as an industry has transformed how people explore and discover their cities, and since its launch in Dar es Salaam in 2016, Uber has been a partner to the city by providing improved mobility options, economic contribution through flexible earnings for drivers and contribution to government revenues. “Safety remains a key priority for Uber and all products carry the same door-to-door safety features as In-App Emergency button for drivers, Injury Protection, Share My Trip and 24/7 support, including Community Guidelines, driver background checks and screenings,” he pointed out. Based on research, most riders seem to be unaware of the safety features available to them. As a result, Uber is launching Safety Check-up in Tanzania which will encourage riders to complete their safety profile by turning on and utilising available features such as Trusted Contacts, PIN verification and Ride Check. Imran further said: “We are certainly excited about our future in Tanzania. We remain committed to engaging with policymakers, raising the bar on safety, helping drivers grow their businesses, and improving the experience of riders.”