THE government of Tanzania and China have signed an agreement to conduct feasibility study to expand the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) by building a cardiac centre at Mloganzila in Dar es Salaam. The feasibility study will be conducted for three months before the construction to commence early next year and the project will take two years to complete. Speaking during the signing ceremony in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, the Government Chief Medical Officer, Professor Tumaini Nagu, said the aim of the centre is to make the JKCI become the Centre of Excellence for Cardiovascular Diseases in East and Central Africa. “I commend the China government for continuing to maintain the good relations with us and we have agreed to start conducting feasibility study to improve JKCI so that it can grow further. “Currently, the JKCI serves number of patients within and outside the country. It offers heart care services in Eastern and Central Africa, therefore the idea of expanding this centre is to bring relief to the increased number of patients,” said Prof Nagu. Prof Nagu said the signing was a result of the official visit by the Minister for Health, Ms Ummy Mwalimu to China in 2018. Elaborating, she said Minister Mwalimu asked the Chinese government to help the expand of JKCI so that it improves its efficiency and become a centre of excellence. “The Government of China agreed and sent experts to assess the area and today we are witnessing the signing for conducting the feasibility study for building the centre,” said Prof Nagu. Prof Nagu, on behalf of the government, thanked the People’s Republic of China for the valuable support and commitment to strengthening the existing of good relationship for the benefit of people of both nations. On his part, the China Economic Affair Counsellor Chu Kun said the signing was a beginning of implementing plan to expand the JKCI. Mr Chu said they regarded Tanzania as an all-time friend and a good partner since the establishment of diplomatic ties many years ago. The JKCI Executive Director, Dr Peter Kisenge said the hospital was doing its best in providing high-quality services to its patients. Dr Kisenge said due to the good services provided that the facility offers the number of patients has been always increasing. “We are currently attending more than 400 outpatients and 100 in-patients a day,” he said.