GRAPE farmers in Chamwino District of Dodoma region have expressed dismay over failure by authorities in the region to timely install wine processing plant(s) at the Chinangali II plantation, saying the delay would automatically let them incur huge loss. During this fiscal year, the government disbursed at least 3bn/- to facilitate construction of three ultra-modern wine processing factories at Chinangali, Chamwino, Hombolo and Mpunguzi areas, the move which attracted more farmers in the region to venture into production of the prestigious economic cash crop. “It’s very disconcerting. The government had already dished out 1bn/- for the installation of the wine processing factory here, and together with that, the Prime Minister had always been at forefront to motivate farmers to grow in abundance in order to feed the envisaged industries, but we’re currently remained at crossroads as we don’t know the ‘whereabouts’ of the project,” expressed chairman of the Association of Tanzania Grapes Farmers, David Mwaka. He added, delay of the necessary project would automatically see most grapes ending up rotten on the plantation due to the poor market for wine grapes within the country. “The government opted to construct the three factories with the major focus to rescue wine grapes farmers from prolonged years of experiencing ‘untold’ loss due to low market for the wine making grape varieties across the country,” he observed. He observed, with ten years ahead remaining to the harvesting season, Mr Mwaka insisted that it was prudent for the ministry of agriculture to ‘work round the clock’ to ensure the factories are being constructed on time in order to put government efforts into reality. “Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has so far made efforts to improve the grapes and wine making sector and thus, failure to install the plants on proper time will negate all of the premier’s positive efforts,” he noted. He further informed that, as the chairperson of the Association of Tanzania Grapes Farmers, he has so far made several efforts to communicate with responsible officials at the parent ministry only to receive ‘unsatisfactory’ responses. “The ministry of agriculture said they have already launched processes for the construction works for the three factories and that it is now looking for professional contractors for undertaking the project at needed quality,” he informed. As per the envisaged plants, one factory will be installed at Chinangali II area in Chamwino District, to occupy at least 6000 acres, the other in Mpunguzi area (3000 acre) and the last to occupy 4000 acres at Hombolo suburb. Tanzania is placed second after South Africa for brewing the best wines within the continent, and the country has potential to perform more impressively due to favorable weather that supports grapes to be grown two seasons per year, an endowed climate which does not exist in any other part of the world. Being the country’s grapes and wine hub, Dodoma region is currently with at least three major wine factories- Aliko Vintage Co. Ltd, Central Tanganyika Wine Company (CETAWICO), and Dane Holding Company (DHC), and five other small scale plants scattered at different locations under ownership of farmers associations.