AS the 59th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution is officially marked today, the Mapinduzi Cup, one of the events to mark the day, sails to the final stage with a match between Mlandege and Singida Big Stars at  Amaan Stadium. When the two teams head to brighten the anniversary tomorrow, both teams have written a new chapter in Mapinduzi Cup history. Mlandege, the Isles envoys play in the final for the first time after 12 years since Ocean View reached the tournament’s final in 2010. Debutants Singida Big Stars reached the final after beating Azam 4-1 whereas Mlandege won 5-4 in a penalty shootout against Namungo after a 1-1 draw at the end of 90 minutes. Heading to the final Singida Big Stars striker Kasengu Francis Kazadi hinted that he will be delighted if his goals will help his team to win titles. The newly Singida Big Stars striker is leading Mapinduzi Cup with five goals he netted in two games whereas he scored his first goal in a 1-1 draw against Young Africans before scoring quadruple in his team’s 4-1 win over Azam. Speaking with the ‘Daily News’, Kazadi said he is happy to be a leading scorer of this year’s Mapinduzi Cup, but he will be more delighted if his goals will help Singida Big Stars to win the Mapinduzi Cup. Asked about his Congolese Yanga’s counterpart Fiston Mayele, Kazadi refused to be drawn into comparison with the Premier League leading scorer insisting he is with Singida Big Stars to help the team win titles and not compete with anyone in the golden boot chase. “Mayele is my brother. We have known each other since  we were in the Democratic Republic of  Congo. He is a good striker and he plays in one of the country’s big clubs but as I said I will be delighted to help my team win titles,” he said. Meanwhile Mlandege’s Head Coach Mohamedi Balesi said he is aware of the threat that Kazadi can cause to  his team, but they are already working on tactics to stop him and his team mates. “He is good striker. To score those goals in just two games is not a joke and we are aware of quality and experience of my opponents as we are working on tactics that will overcome his threat and the entire Singida Big Stars squad,” he said. Kazadi looks a big threat to Mlandege’s Head Coach Balesi when his team  faces Singida Big Stars in the final match of Mapinduzi Cup here at Amaan Stadium on Friday.