PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi has reassured the youth of the government’s commitment and support to them in different endeavors. Dr Mwinyi also urged the group to continue developing their talents, adding: “We remain fully committed to the youth, because they are key players in nation building.” Taking the stance at Michenzani- Mapinduzi Square grounds on Wednesday, he inaugurated the ‘Mapinduzi Expedition’  that was organised by the Chama Cha Mapinduzi Youth Wing during the 59th anniversary of the 1964 Revolution in the Island. Elaborating, Dr Mwinyi pledged that both the Union and Zanzibar governments will continue providing the youth with loans to enable them to start businesses. He said that both the governments have put in place conducive environment to enable young people to find employment, adding: “UVCCM members have a great responsibility to guide and to be models of others.” Equally, Dr Mwinyi asked the young people to use different methods to teach their peers on how to be productive and refrain from engaging in unethical behaviours including Gender Based Violence. He said that, the youth are important in pushing forward the development of the national economy- that is why both the governments have been appointing many of them to hold various leadership positions in order to gain experience. In addition, he said the task ahead of them is to build the country after gaining independence (revolution) as well as reminding them to maintain peace, unity and stability in the community. On her part, UVCCM guardian, First Lady Mama Maryam Mwinyi urged the young people to observe discipline in serving their party and continue giving positive comments about government. In the same line, she urged them to continue taking health precautions against COVID-19 that is still a challenge in the world. She said Zanzibar is receiving people from various parts of the world, thus, they should go for vaccination as the best way to protect them from the disease. Earlier, CCM  Deputy Secretary General- Zanzibar Dr Abdalla Juma Mabodi asked the youth to promote political reconciliation in support of the National party Chairperson Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan and her Zanzibar counterpart Dr Mwinyi. The UVCCM national Chairperson, Mr Mohammed Ali Kawaida promised that youth wing will use the opportunity to hold public meetings by giving positive comments. The annual Mapinduzi Walk will continue for seven consecutive days, where this year’s theme is “Blue Economy for Industrial Development, it is an opportunity for the youth.”