RETIRED Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein has hailed his successor Dr Hussein Mwinyi for managing to record admirable achievement in implementing the Blue Economy agenda. Dr Shein praised his successor during the opening of the five-star hotel in the Isles. “Blue Economy policy started during the sixth phase government under President Dr Amani Abeid Karume and during my time, but we didn’t get far. Fortunately, backed by the CCM party election Manifesto for 2020/2025, Dr Mwinyi is on track,” Shein noted at the opening of the TOA Hotel. He said that efforts being made by the eighth phase government under the leadership of Dr Mwinyi in creating an enabling environment for investment, should be supported because his aim is to bring better life for all Zanzibaris. Dr Shein explained that his seventh phase government, in 2013, introduced a campaign dubbed ‘Tourism for All’, to motivate every citizen to engage in the tourism sector. He commended the investors from Israel for constructing the TOA hotel in a short time after the land lease. The construction of the 3.5 million US dollar hotel with 86 rooms, started in August, 2021. Mr Sharif Ali Sharif- Director, Zanzibar Investment Promotion Authority (ZIPA) also praised the investor for the investment without delays. He said ZIPA is digitising the process for investment to eliminate bureaucracy. Explaining about the history of tourism in Zanzibar, the retired President Shein said the ‘tourism and hospitality sector’ grew from only two hotels in 1964 to more than 700 hotels currently, including five-star facilities in Unguja and Pemba. On her part, the Principal Secretary (PS)- State Ministry (Labour, Economy and Investments) Dr Habiba Hassan Omar, said that during the two years of the eighth phase, 215 projects with the value of 3.3 billion US dollars have been registered. She said that the projects are expected to create more than 13,000 jobs when completed, saying that 74 of those projects worth 312 million US dollars will be invested in the Southern Region of Unguja,  creating more than 3000 jobs. Earlier, the TOA Hotel General Manager Ally Muhungo said the management has given great priority to employ Zanzibaris including residents of Pongwe. The opening of the hotel was among activities to celebrate the 59th anniversary of revolution which climaxes on January 12, 2023.