PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has expressed Tanzania’s commitment to foster friendship and cooperation with China for mutual benefits. The Head of State expressed the commitment through her Twitter handle- @SuluhuSamia- as she extended best wishes to all Chinese as they celebrate Chinese New Year (The Year of Rabbit). “Tanzania is dedicated to fostering a strong and genuine friendship and cooperation for the betterment of both nations,” President Samia tweeted. The Chinese New Year 2023 falls on Sunday, January 22, 2023 and the celebrations culminate with the Lantern Festival on February 5, 2023. During the celebrations, Asian communities around the world say goodbye to the Year of the Tiger and usher in the Year of the Rabbit. The fourth animal in the Chinese zodiac, rabbits symbolise grace, beauty and good luck. The Chinese New Year holiday comes to its climax with the Yuan Xiao, or Lantern Festival, and is celebrated on February 5th, 2023. Began over 2000 years ago, the festival has developed many meanings. It celebrates family reunions and society. It features ancient spiritual traditions. Some also call it the “true” Chinese Valentine’s Day. It includes many activities such as moon gazing, lighting lanterns, riddles, lion dances and eating rice balls. Tanzania and China have been enjoying cordial relations since the era of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Chairman   Mao Tse-Tung.    In 2022 Tanzania recorded major achievements through its mission in Beijing. According to Tanzania Ambassador to China, Mbelwa Kairuki the country’s exports   to China rose to 605.5 million US dollars (1.4tri/-) last year from 409 million US dollars (954.bn/-) in 202. He said Tanzania’s export volume to China is expected to grow by 20 per cent in the year 2023, thanks to enhanced trade and bilateral ties between the two countries in 2022. Mr Kairuki attributed the success to a number of factors and efforts taken by Dodoma and Beijing governments, including the historic visit that President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan made to China in November last year. President Samia’s Beijing visit played a crucial role in cementing further the existing bilateral ties as well as opening up more business opportunities for people of the two countries, said Ambassador Kairuki. “The historic visit opened a number of opportunities. From this year, Tanzanian businessmen will start exporting avocados and perch fish to the Chinese market. Moreover, at least 1,000 Tanzanian youth will be able to sell soybeans to China following agreements that were signed last year between the government and Longping Company of China. He said, under the signed agreement, Tanzanian youth who are growing soybeans will be provided with seeds and farming inputs. Also, there are some 10,000 employment opportunities for Tanzanians that will be created following huge investment at the Sino-Tanzania industrial area in Kibaha, Coast region. “The investment is part of implementation of the resolutions reached during the investment forum held between President Samia and the Confederation of Chinese businessmen in Tanzania,” said Ambassador Kairuki. The year 2022 also saw Tanzanians start transporting their cargo directly to China through Air Tanzania. . Ambassador Kairuki also noted that Tanzanian students studying in China, business men and tourists will continue enjoying direct flights between Guangzhou and Dar es Salaam.