VICE-PRESIDENT Dr Philip Mpango has urged Tanzanians to continue maintaining unity, peace and love from family to national level. He also emphasised on members of the community to promote and protect women’s rights as they are most vulnerable in cases related to domestic violence. Dr Mpango made the statement yesterday in Dodoma during a New Year service at the Yohane Bosco Muyui Catholic Church. He said: “Despite various efforts that are being taken to promote equality, still there is injustice among some members of the community that, to a large extent, affects the welfare of women. “Still there is injustice in the communities, there is a number of challenges that are facing women from family level as a result of denying them owning properties including land,” said Dr Mpango. In his address, he asked Tanzanians to continue praying for national peace and tranquility for the year 2023. “By all means, Tanzanians should refrain from being involved in violence, but instead preach peace,” he said, reiterating the importance of hard working and environmental conservation for national development. Moreover he asked religious leaders and their parishioners to continue praying for government leaders so that they keep on serving the national interest at all aspects. Speaking last week during a Christmas service at the Christ the King Parish at Veyula in Dodoma, Dr Mpango urged Tanzanians to strengthen protection of children from acts of violence, which affect them physically and psychologically. He appealed to Tanzanians, who have abused children to ask for God’s forgiveness, adding that they should stop injustice to children, because as believers they must meet needs of children, including education. A recent police report showed that there has been 25.95 per cent increase in child sexual abuse cases from 2015 to 2020. In the year 2020, some 7,388 cases were reported while in 2015, 5,803 cases were registered. Police records showed that from January to December 2021, there were 11,499 reported cases of abuse and violence against children in Tanzania. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO) recent report, nearly 3 in 4 children, or 300 million children aged 2-4 years regularly suffer physical punishment and/or psychological violence at the hands of parents and caregivers. One in 5 women and 1 in 13 men report having been sexually abused as a child aged 0-17 years, and 120 million girls and young women under 20 years of age have suffered some form of forced sexual contact. Country’s Law of the Child Act, 2009 provides for reform and consolidation of laws relating to children, to stipulate rights of the child and to promote, protect and maintain the welfare of a child with a view to giving effect to international and regional conventions on the rights of the child. It also provides for affiliation, fostering care, adoption and custody of the child; to further regulate employment and apprenticeship; to make provisions with respect to a child in conflict with law and to provide for related matters. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) is the most widely-ratified international human rights treaty in history and the most complete statement of children’s rights. The Convention, which came into force in Tanzania in 1991, puts children at the heart of development. Since it was adopted by the United Nations in November 1989, 196 countries have signed up to the UNCRC, with only one country yet to ratify. On the other hand, the Vice-President urged Tanzanians to use the current rainfall for producing crops and planting trees for environmental preservation.