Connected payment services provider Pesapal has introduced a novel retail automation solution to help lower operational costs in the retail fuel business segment and enhance the efficiency of forecourts in the sub-sector. Through the high-tech investment, the digital finance firm targets to automate 100 fuel stations across Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda before the end of this year. According to a statement issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Pesapal Forecourt Management Solution (PFMS) was the answer to fuel station owners in the region’s requirement for seamless connectivity between forecourt equipment and facilitation of top fuel monitoring services. The facilitation aspect of the new technology, the company explained, does not only help petroleum business retailers to lessen overheads but also enables them to minimise vices like fraud and improve how they interact with customers to drive more business. “The Pesapal Forecourt Management Solution drives the automation of fuel and retail management processes. It seamlessly connects distribution points and digital payments – backed up with tools to reduce costs and pilfering, while improving the customer experience,” stated the statement. In February last year, Pesapal received accreditation from the International Forecourt Standards Forum (IFSF) to provide integrated payment solutions to fuel stations, which accorded the company the opportunity to partner with retailers across the country to provide secure and seamless payment solutions in the industry. Speaking during the unveiling of the innovative solution recently, Pesapal Limited, Chief Executive Officer Mr Agosta Liko said PFMS’s ability to automate the entire fuel management process creates a cohesive environment in the fuel retail sub-sector. Independent petrol station operators and large forecourt networks are changing up their business models with convenience services new fuels and battery charging. This makes it a more exciting, complex and risky game to be in. We’re helping them automate and digitise, so they can focus on growing their businesses. With Pesapal, petrol station owners can remotely monitor and control LPG and fuel dispensers. The solution automates how these talk to tank gauges, price displays and payment systems – which, as usual with Pesapal, integrate mobile money, cards and online payments. “We’ve spent months working with petrol station owners across East Africa and we’ve consistently heard about a lack of affordable monitoring and data tools for our unique environment. Many owners want to transform their forecourt into a multi-use hub, but they’re flying blind at the moment. Pesapal provides a back-end reporting tool and allows station owners to link Point of Sale (POS) and other technology platforms to forecourt operations. Additional functions include centralised price changes, RFID-based attendant tagging, automatic indenting of products and posting of outlet data to head office systems,” Mr Liko said. According to Pesapal Tanzania Country Manager Bupe Mwakalundwa, PFMS enables fuel operators to improve how they serve customers and promote an all-inclusive experience across the board. “The solution allows customers to make their purchases in a single, harmonized transaction, while fuel operators quickly and securely authorize transactions,” she points out in the presser. Pesapal is a Technical Associate of the International Forecourt Standards Forum (IFSF). This community is focused on technology standards to benefit automotive fuel and energy retailers. It is also championing the interoperability of forecourt and convenience devices and services. IFSF membership paves the way for Pesapal to partner with African forecourt operators to drive further automation and meet changing global standards.