TANZANIA Ports Authority (TPA) has digitalised its payment systems in collaboration with CRDB Bank in a bid to increase efficiency while maximising collection. TPA picked one of the largest lenders in the land to develop the platform after it advised them on the paramount of digitalised payment system to enable users to make payments wherever they’re. CRDB’s DR-Congo Managing Director, Ms Jessica Nyachiro said the experience they have gained over the years led to advising the Port Authority to establish the system to increase efficiency in revenue collection while simplifying payment services for stakeholders. “We are proud to be part of TPA’s digital payment system, which will enable customers to make payments worldwide. We are also the first bank to integrate our services with the TPA,” Ms Nyachiro, who represented CRDB Group CEO, Abdulmajid Nsekela, said. The system also addresses several manual platform loopholes including charging the wrong rate for some consignments. “The system also converts foreign currency without human intervention,” Ms Nyachiro said over the weekend during the launch of the platform. The payment also can be made without visiting bank branches thus enabling port users to make payments wherever they are in the world via Visa and Mastercard platforms. TPA Director General, Mr Plasduce Mbossa, said the system will simplify the operation of the port as users will be issued with a ‘control number’ for making all port payments and record every transaction made step by step. “The system will reduce the bureaucracy while removing queues for payment port charges,” he said. Also, TPA plans to open a customer service centre to address customers’ challenges encounter while accessing the digital payment system. Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA) President Mr Edward Urio said the system will revolutionise the port payment platform thus increasing the revenue collection. Several banks have linked their port payments with the TPA system thus making it easy and hassle-free to conduct these transactions not only domestically but also internationally.