THE Deputy Minister of Works and Transport, Autupele Mwakibete led the ministry’s staff members in practicing and playing various sports at the University of Dar es Salaam grounds, the exercise that ended with huge success health-wise. The physical exercises held yesterday at USDM also included various sports and games with all staff members participating fully. The most thrilling events were tug of war, jogging, and football. The Deputy Minister said they staged the sports festival a way to maintain unity and solidarity in all the institutions under the ministry. “We have begun this year well starting with the physical exercises to build body fitness that will increase efficiency in our daily work. This is a calendar guide for our ministry. The exercises were a continuation of what we were doing before celebrating events like May Day. Sports help us to meet and know each other as employees of the ministry. “Our ministry will continue to give our employees enough time to participate in y sports.” I am proud of the victory and the trophy we won in the last year’s bonanza since the teams were able to represent well and show our ministry how good the sports sector is,” he said. He ended up saying, “I would like to congratulate all the elected leaders of the ministry clubs in the past elections. And to give congratulations to all the leaders who were able to achieve this bonanza. And I have also launched a magazine that will show the memories of various sports that are held here in our ministry,” he added. Additionally, the Director General of Tanzania Airport Authority (TAA), Mussa Mbura said they are very grateful to the ministry’s staff members for organizing the sports festival and for inviting them so that they could participate together. “We are very grateful for this bonanza because we are all under the same ministry and we are working to build one country. However, sports provide an opportunity for people to meet and form positive relationships with one another. Also, sports enhance the strong relationship in the institutions which are under the ministry. “The Ministry has already received the calendar of the year, which has also set and shown the official days for sports, and there will be a lot of games meant to improve our health. “On the part of our institution, we have created our own teams in order to form strong teams that can participate in the ministerial competitions,” he said. 