SMALL Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) in Mtwara Region is set to provide entrepreneurship and business skills training to youths and business people from the Comoro Islands to boost business efficiency. SIDO Regional Manager Mr Twaha Sued said here at the weekend that the plan will go in line with teaching small and medium enterprises of Comoro Islands the use of innovative technologies in production. “We (Comoro delegation of traders and SIDO) agreed on three issues, one is that SIDO will officially organise and provide entrepreneurship and skills development training programmes to youths and business people from the Comoro Islands, teach the use of innovation and technologies as well as coming to invest in SIDO Mtwara,” he said. He said the agreement was reached during a meeting between a delegation of traders from Ngazidja Island in Comoro and a community of business people in Mtwara. Mr Sued said SIDO has developed various business technologies including agriculture and biotechnology. He said the organisation is highly committed to hosting business people from the Comoro Islands and other countries such as Mozambique and Zambia. On the investment plan, Mr Sued said SIDO in Mtwara has large investment areas to accommodate foreign investors. The Industry and Trade Officer from Mtwara District Council Mr Alfred Mtawanya said the plan by business people from the Comoro Islands would make significant contribution to the economic development of Mtwara, business people in the region and the country at large. “The coming of business people, investors and students in Mtwara to us is a very productive contribution as it would help promote economic development, improve productivity and create jobs,” he said. Speaking during the meeting, Tanzanian Ambassador to the Comoro Islands Mr Pereira Silima said there is a high demand of products such as vegetables and called for business people, farmers and other people in Mtwara to tap the business opportunity from the Comoro Islands to invest more in agricultural products such as vegetables, tomatoes among other products.