THE Judiciary of Tanzania has received applications from 138 bidders for implementation of new projects, including the construction of more than nine Integrated Justice Centres (ICJ) and 60 Primary Courts in various areas in the country. This was disclosed by the Head of Delivery Unit of the Judiciary of Tanzania (JDU), Dr Angelo Rumisha, at a special training that took place recently at the Integrated Justice Centre in Arusha, which was prepared for some of judicial officers, who will evaluate the said tender applications. Dr Rumisha noted that in the second phase of the project, the Judiciary has planned to build at least nine Integrated Justice Centres and 60 Primary Courts in various areas in the country. “We have started the procurement process for the construction of the court buildings. The construction process has many procedures in accordance with the World Bank. We are looking for architects who will help make drawings and manage the constructions,” he pointed out. Elaborating, he further said that an architect has already been found for the Integrated Centres, noting that they are currently looking for other experts also for the construction. Adding: “On December 29, 2022, we opened a tender and for the first time, many applications were forwarded that had never been seen in the judicial process. There are 138 applications for consulting on drawings and construction management, yet only 10 bidders are required.” Dr Rumisha said that after receiving the application and considering the past history, they thought it was good to start with the training on evaluations in the technical and administrative areas. On her part, the Procurement Affairs Manager from the Unit in question, Ms Damasia Ndunguru, explained that the training which was provided related to tender evaluation processes, which included judicial employees from various cadres. “The judiciary has received 138 tenders, which means there are consultants and experts in standardised construction and construction management matters of our projects that we expect to start soon. They include the construction of more than nine Integrated Justice Centres and 60 Primary Courts,” she said. Ms Ndunguru noted that from the 138 applications, they expect to source 10 bidders only to do the work. “This team is here to get training, understanding and knowledge before starting the exercise in order to get qualified applicants, who will be able to complete our projects to the required standards,” she said. Such training was also conducted using the Video Conference to connect other employees that were in another station of the Namtumbo District Court who could not attend the Arusha venue due to other judicial duties. The Judiciary of Tanzania, through the Judicial Delivery Unit, organised such special training for judicial officers with various cadres including Engineers, Architects, Supply Officers, Magistrates, Registrars, Accountants, Economists and Statisticians to build their capacity in issues related to tender evaluations.