SIMBA and Azam are the two Premier League sides which have unzipped 2023 with massive wins after producing a total of 15 goals in their year ender fixtures. It all started with the Msimbazi Street Reds who punished Tanzania Prisons 7-1 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Friday to hand their fans a deserved New Year gift. The resurgence of John Bocco who netted a hat-trick on the day has opened a new chapter for the Msimbazi street based giants who has since contributed 9 goals, just one goal behind the team’s current top goal scorer Moses Phiri who cherishes 10 goals. Again, the arrival of Saidi Ntibazonkiza has given Simba another goal scoring option meaning that they are now having three players who are merciless when it comes to putting the ball behind the net. The Burundian also claimed a hat-trick on the day plus one assist thereby making a statement to Premier League teams to get prepared as his scoring skills have not faded away. Then on the New Year eve, another massacre was witnessed at Azam Complex where the hosting side marched into 2023 with chests up following a landmark 6-1 victory against Mbeya City. What seemed to be a tough fixture for the Chamazi giants turned out to be an easy match for them as they produced their first voluminous win of the campaign as goals emerged from each section of the artificial turf. For Mbeya region envoys Tanzania Prisons and Mbeya City, they have embraced 2023 with a bitter pills in the mouth but they still have enough time to recover as the season is far from over. Reacting to the heavy loss, Mbeya City Assistant Coach Antony Mwamlima said it was a big upset for them hence will go back to the training pitch to sort out the flaws. “We came here with a purpose to win the game but things have made a U-turn. This is football, we concede the loss and look forward to do well in other approaching league fixtures,” he said. His counterpart Aggrey Morris for Azam, heaped praises on his players for ending 2022 in a fascinating style while pledging to expect more from the Ice cream makers this year.