THE Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports has instructed the National Music Rhythm Committee to immediately complete the task of finding the best traditional rhythm that can appeal to the continental and global markets. The directives were issued Tuesday when the Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Mohamed Mchengerwa reviewed the progress, the committee has reached in finding the best national rhythm style. Last year, the Minister appointed 13 members led by the National Arts Council (BASATA) Executive Secretary Kedmon Mapana to conduct the exercise. ‘’I urge all members of the National Music Rhythm Committee to  complete the work immediately so that they can submit the country’s identification earlier so as to enable artists to start using it for global level conquest, ‘’he said. The committee is the one responsible for finding and creating the rhythm that will represent well the country. As he visited the committee, the Docket Minister said having the rhythm is the major way to accomplish the government’s mission of investing heavily in Tanzanian artistry so that it can promote the country’s image globally. He said that the Ministry aims to support the major efforts done by President Samia Suluhu Hassan in creating a big revolution in the culture and arts sector. While addressing this, he directed the committee led by Mapana to classify ten artists who will be supported by the government in promoting the rhythm. After the completion of the national music rhythm, he asked the committee to prepare the best strategy that will be a privilege in advertising the rhythm whereby it can be well-accepted worldwide. Adding, he said the artists who will be supported by the government their works will be recorded in a video and accompanied by the rhythm to convey the intended message. He insisted that on the day when the rhythm will be launched, the songs should be well recorded and performed live. And after that, the songs will be mainstreamed in all networks around the world. On his part, one of the members of the committee Zahir Zolo has expressed gratitude to President Samia for making large investments in the culture and arts sector. Zahir has also commended Minister Mchengerwa for the effective management of his Ministry which he has claimed has brought great success.