THE Vice-President, Dr Philip Mpango has touted for mediation and arbitration in justice dispensation, as the judiciary kicked off its yearly Law Week on Sunday. The VP said arbitration was one of the measures that would reduce revenge-related disputes within persons who were not satisfied by decisions made by different courts. Dr Mpango launched the Law Week on Sunday in Dodoma at the popular Nyerere Square grounds, where several exhibitions are being held by different law institutions from both the public and private sector. The week is expected to reach its climax on January 29th 2023, ahead of the Law Day celebrations, which will be marked at the national level in the country’s capital on February 1, 2023 and graced by President Samia Suluhu Hassan, according to the Chief Justice, Professor Ibrahim Juma. This year’s Law Week is themed: ‘The importance of conflict resolution through arbitration in heightening sustainable economy: The responsibility of the judiciary and its stakeholders.’ In his speech to residents who thronged the Nyerere Square grounds, Dr Mpango said the theme was timely as if well implemented; it was poised to reduce case backlogs as well as reduce events of revenge by some persons, who were not satisfied by court decisions. “Arbitration brings mutual understanding that is why, I am asking the judiciary to capitalise on it in order to reduce unnecessary disputes within our communities,” he insisted. At the event, the VP paid tribute to the judiciary for embracing the use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the corridors of justice insisting, “Without ICT, we cannot go anywhere in the current world, therefore in provision of justice you need to bank on it.” However, the VP pointed an accusing finger to the judiciary and other bodies dealing with justice including the police and prison forces, saying that members of the public were complaining of unprofessional acts, mainly bribes which were denying rights of the poor. Also he said, writing judgment in English was yet another hurdle for persons who were unable to comprehend with the language, adding that some suspects were staying in remand prison for so long because of delayed investigation by investigation bodies. The VP further noted that some persons were failing to have access to justice because of longer distances to access courts. Earlier in his speech, the Chief Justice (CJ) Prof Juma said that the judiciary was implementing various projects to have courts in all areas of the country in efforts to increase pace in justice delivery. In the ongoing Law Week, the CJ said that four district courts would be officially launched. They are located in the districts of Manyoni (Singida), Bunda (Mara), Sikonge (Tabora) and Rungwe in Mbeya Region. The inauguration of the Law Week was preceded by a procession that was led by Dr Mpango. It started early in the morning from Dodoma’s Integrated Justice Centre (IJC) to Nyerere Square Grounds.