FOOTBALL fans and analysts are keen to see the final verdict of the contract saga between Young Africans and Feisal Salum when TFF unveil the ruling in Dar es Salaam today. Chairman of the Legal and Players Status Committee of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Said Sudi is expected to conclude the case with an option to appeal for a side which will not be satisfied. Speaking in the city over the weekend, Sudi narrated that after reviewing Feisal’s contract; his committee established that he is a legal Yanga player. “As such; Feisal has an option to appeal or he can request the case to be reviewed by our committee. After us, the next destination if he need to appeal is at the Court for Arbitration of Sport (CAS),” he said. On his part, Feisal’s lawyer Nduruma Majembe insisted that justice has not been rendered on the case and that his client is not ready to rejoin Yanga at the moment. “I cannot say what will be our next step but Feisal himself when he was quizzed by members of the Legal and Players Status Committee, he openly declared that he is not ready to play again at the club basing on tough situations he passed through,” Majembe said. On Saturday, the committee through an official statement on TFF Instagram page indicated that Feisal has a valid contract at Yanga. The first preliminary hearing of the case was held on Friday where Feisal appeared before the Legal and Players Status Committed ready to answer all pending questions. Accompanied by his legal team and his father, the midfielder could not say anything after a meeting which lasted for an hour but was seen in jovial mood as he marched towards his parking car. Yanga insist that Feisal breached some contract agreement in his quest to terminate it saying his current contract runs up to 2024. Recently, there has been a tug-of-war between Feisal and his club whereby the former is allegedly forcing his way out of the club while the latter claims he has a valid contract until 2024. The Jangwani Street- based side claims that some important details were not properly followed by the player in his effort to terminate the contract. However, Feisal’s last match to play for Yanga before the transfer controversy was a 3-0 win against Coastal Union at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on December 20th. He has so far missed two matches versus Azam and an away trip against Mtibwa Sugar of which Yanga triumphed 1-0.