SIMBA said they will miss the services of six players ahead of their Premier League match against Dodoma Jiji at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma today. Simba who defeated Mbeya City 3-2 at Benjamin Mkapa in their recent game are glued to second place with 47th points, six points behind leaders Young Africans who command the title with 53 points. Ahead of that away game against Dodoma Jiji, Simba’s Communication Manager Ahmed Ally said they will miss six key players including defenders Henock Inonga and Joash Onyango. Others are Moses Phiri, Peter Banda, Mzamiru Yassin, and Sadio Kanoute. Ally clarified that Inonga is still nursing his injury while Banda and Phiri have recovered but are short of fitness to face Dodoma Jiji while Mzamiru, Kanoute, and Onyango have been suspended for accumulating yellow cards. “Everything is going on well for our league game against Dodoma Jiji and today we made final training at Mo Simba Arena in Bunju, Dar es Salaam and all players are ready for the game. “Mzamiru, Kanoute, and Onyango are suspended after picking three yellow cards in previous matches, but the remaining players will turn up to serve the club,” he said. Additionally, Simba said the arrival of Ouanane Sellami at the team’s technical bench is intended to make it stronger ahead of the domestic and continental level assignments. The Tunisian trainer, who has been assigned as an assistant coach, joins Juma Mgunda, who is also the assistant coach and the duo will work under Head Coach Roberto Oliviera. “In order to do well in CAF Champions League, the Premier League, and other competitions, you need to have a well-furnished technical bench and this is what we are doing. “The coming in of Sellami is an indicator that we are serious with our ambition to achieve a lot in all the competitions we are engaged and he is going to receive proper cooperation from his colleagues,” said the club’s Media and Communication Manager Ahmed Ally. He added a club of Simba calibre is destined to record major successes that is why they aim to boost the technical staff and make it competitive enough. Currently, Simba trail league leaders Young Africans with 6 points as such, a triumph will slice the gap to 3 points prior to their rivals hosting  Ruvu Shooting on Monday. From 20 matches, Simba have claimed 47 points after they won 3-2 over Mbeya City in Oliviera’s first league match in Tanzania. On the other hand, Dodoma Jiji have collected 21 points from 20 games and they lost 2-0 in their past match against Geita Gold at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita, therefore they are likely to play as a wounded bull in tomorrow’s battle.