AUTHORITIES in Dodoma Region have revealed that only 66.9 per cent of 47,000 pupils who passed the 2022 primary national examination have joined secondary school education this year. Until January 26, the whereabouts of more than 14,000 students (33.1 per cent) of those who were supposed to be in classes were still unknown. This was revealed by Dodoma Region Administrative Secretary (RAS) Dr Fatma Mganga in Kondoa over the weekend while opening a capacity-building session coordinated by the Shule Bora project. “We know we still have time for them to show up, the admission window is open until March, collectively, we must together ensure that those kids are not disappearing. We need all 47,000 students in schools,” she insisted. However, Dr Mganga tipped that in the Dodoma region they still have 400 pupils who are incapable of reading, writing and doing arithmetic even after completing Standard Four. “There is no reason for that level of illiteracy in the capital region. All players should join muscles to eliminate that mess.” She expressed that this year, Dodoma expected to enrol more than 90,000 pupils in Pre-primary and primary schools, and urged parents to collaborate with the government in improving infrastructures that would be friendly for their academic progress. Dr Mganga expressed that despite the government efforts to provide free education to all children from primary to secondary, parents and guardians have a big role to improve academic performance of their children. “Parents must prepare and get ready to ensure our students are in a favourable atmosphere to study, there are no school fees but they must have a responsibility of taking care of those schools,” she explained. Additionally, she called upon journalists all over the region to collect and report news stories that would help to motivate parents to send their kids to school. Expressing about Shule Bora, a UK aid-funded education programme that was implemented in nine regions of Tanzania mainland, Dr Mganga said the programme helped to address challenges facing the education sector, hence improve the quality. Moreover, Dr Mganga asked all education players in the region to support the programme to ensure it delivers the desired outcome. Mr Raymond Kanyambo, a communication manager for the Shule Bora programme expressed that the six-year (2021-2027) programme worth 271bn/- was designed to solve education challenges in 9 regions which are Dodoma, Tanga, Singida, Coast, Katavi, Rukwa, Kigoma, Mara, and Simiyu. Mr Kayombo hinted that the programme was designed to strengthen learning, teaching, inclusiveness and the education system to facilitate quality education for all children in those regions.