SPORTS benefits opportunities have continued to light up basketball youth Atiki Ally Atiki as he has landed an advertisement deal with American health products company Nutricost. Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) Vice-President Rweha Munyagi confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ over the weekend that Atiki, whose career progress in America has been very impressive, has been blessed with his first advertisement deal with Nutricost to shower his career. The deal was based on NIL (Name Image Liking) for the forward 6, 10 from Mwanza, according to Munyagi, he though did not disclose the value of the deal. Atiki continues to fly high the Tanzanian flag in America as he now sails into his third year at Brigham Young University (BYU) which is a first-grade college in NCAA, one of the biggest leagues in American universities. Munyagi said  Atiki has benefited from the recent year’s changes that allow amateur players to get advertisement deals in order to earn additional funds to help them support their needs while still in college. He said that TBF is happy with the progress of the Tanzanian player and compliments him for his tireless efforts that light his career and country. “He has done tremendously well, now it is our turn to make deliberate strategies and continue utilising Atiki position in promoting Tanzania as well in and abroad,” he said. Munyagi stressed that this is an important and great opportunity for the country and companies to continue promoting the country and tourism through sports and Tanzania companies can also take advantage of Atiki presence. Adding, he said that Atiki’s success has opened the opportunity to rediscover more talents and expose them to the global platforms for individual and country’s benefit. “This shows that there is an opportunity to look at players like Atiki out there who have the potential to become stars,” he added. Atiki has entered his crucial year to know his chance to go play basketball on an NBA paycheck. Munyagi furthermore said Atiki has the needed strength, size, and speed, but he needs to be physically fit before playing in the professional league. Atiki secured a scholarship to study and pursue a higher career in basketball after impressing during a scouting training held in Dar es Salaam in August 2017. Juco Advocate scouts came for a sports tour after being invited by the then US national team coach, American Matthew McAllister while Munyagi also played a big part in the whole setup.