THE newly elected management team of Simba has been tasked to heighten the club’s status with an increase to the professional level being the ultimate goal. That was revealed by the team’s Chief Executive Officer Imani Kajula during the team’s Annual General Meeting and that later climaxed with the General Elections at Julius Nyerere International Convention Center (JNICC) in Dar es Salaam on Sunday. Among the notable goals the new management is tasked with, according to Kajula, is the construction of men’s team apartments that will meet the status of the team and its players. At the continental level, the newly elected team is tasked to see Simba reach above the semifinal stage of CAF Champions League this season while at the national level, the new team is tasked to reclaim the Premier League title. While going to the polls yesterday, Simba are placed second with 50 points, just six points inferior to the leaders and traditional rivals, Young Africans with 56 points, a situation that gives the new management a tall order  to overcome with 9 games remaining before the end of the season.      . Altogether, according to CEO Kajula, the new team is tasked to ensure Simba Queens, who reached the semifinal stage of the CAF Women’s Champions League, go above that stage by clinching the continental level title after exceling at the national and regional levels. Simba Queens qualified for semis, thus  top four in Africa. On the club’s status, Kajula said in the past six seasons, Simba’s squad was worth 1.5bn.-but today Simba spent 20bn/- for recruiting players and that tasks the new management to increase the value of the squad to over 20bn/- annually. “We have done much to increase the value of sponsorship and keep attracting more investors to back Simba,” said the CEO. Simba conduced a successful election whose results were  yet to be released when the Daily News went to the press. The election aimed to elect a new Chairman and five Board of Directors members in the Extraordinary General Meeting. The exercise comes a few days after the club unmasked Imani Kajula as their Chief Executive Officer (CEO) succeeding Barbara Gonzalez whose tenure apparently expired. Recently, the club’s Election Committee paraded 14 candidates cleared to compete for the club’s chairmanship and five Board of Directors membership slots ahead of today’s elections. According to him, the chairman post is being contested by Adv. Moses Kaluwa and Murtaza Mungungu as the latter was seeking to be re-elected for the hot seat for another four-year duration. Those who vied  for  the Board of Directors membership are Seif Muba, Seleman Said, Idd Kitete, Issa Iddi, Abubakari Zebo, Abdallah Mgomba, Elisony Mweladzi, Rashid Khamsini, Rodney Chiduo, Aziz Mohamed, Asha Baraka, and Pendo Mapugilo.