ORGANISERS of the Kilimanjaro’s grand run have announced that they are in line with the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa’s directive last year that the event will now be known as the Kilimanjaro International Marathon. The event’s main sponsors have also called on participants to register on time as there is limited time left to the biggest athletics event that is slated for next month. Organised by Kilimanjaro Marathon Company Limited and nationally coordinated by Executive Solutions Limited, the event will be held on February 26th this year at the Moshi Cooperatives University (MoCU) Stadium in Kilimanjaro Region. This, according to the statement, issued yesterday will ensure more participants from outside the country who will also engage in tourism activities like scaling Mt Kilimanjaro, visiting the Serengeti and Ngorongoro National Parks and the Zanzibar Islands. Currently, according to the organisers, the event attracts participants from more than 55 countries worldwide. They said the event has met all the criteria of an international marathon among them is distance officially measured to World Athletics standards, electronic timekeeping and dope testing of  selected athletes on finishing, Athletics Officials to monitor event, police and security en route. Also the list includes sufficient water and liquids en route, medals and t-shirts, official photography and video production, televised throughout Africa and on Youtube, online pre-entry and payment, race number collection and running vest collection in  Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Moshi pre-event and liability insurance. The Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Brand Manager, Pamela Kikuli made the call for early registration in Dar es Salaam while commenting on preparations for this year’s event. “We are calling on participants to register on time through tigopesa by dialing *150*01# or through www.kilimanjaromarathon.com as entries are still open,” she noted. Kikuli added that early registration will give the organisers ample time to prepare in terms of the essentials like water on the route, security and first aid. Kilimanjaro Premium Lager has been the main sponsor for the Kilimanjaro International Marathon since its inception in 2003. Other sponsors include Tigo – 21km Half Marathon, Grand Malt – 5Km Fun Run. Water table sponsors include, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, Kilimanjaro Water, Total Energies  and official suppliers GardaWorld Security, Keys Hotel, Kibo Palace Hotel and CMC Automobiles.