PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan is today expected to take part in a series of development activities in Zanzibar as part of events to mark the 59th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution which took place on January 12, 1964. Among the activities on the presidential itinerary today, she will receive members of the youth wing of the ruling party CCM, known as UVCCM in its Kiswahili acronym, who participated in the ‘Mapinduzi Walk’ in tribute to the heroes of the revolution led by the late Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume. The ‘Mapinduzi Walk’, which is held every year as part of celebrations to mark the revolution, was inaugurated last week by President and Chairman of the Revolutionary Council of Zanzibar, Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi at Mapinduzi Square. Even though President Mwinyi has already announced that there will not be official celebrations accompanied with pomp and fanfare this year as it has been the case in the past, Dr Samia is slated to receive the youth at Paje Village in Unguja South. Dr Mwinyi has thus directed funds amounting to 450m/- which were earmarked for the celebrations of the revolution to be channeled to support development projects. According to programme of the event today, President Samia will receive the youth after their walk, where she will address them on issues related to their development and the nation at large. During the same day, Dr Samia is expected to inaugurate a newly built Primary School at Mwanakwerekwe in Unguja West ‘B’ District, according to Principal Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, Mr Khamis Abdalla. The PS explained further that President Samia will be joining other leaders from the Union and Zanzibar’s governments to inaugurate and lay foundation stones for implementation of various development projects in the isles. Mr Abdalla noted that the events to be graced by Dr Samia today are part of several development activities earmarked to celebrate the 59th anniversary of the revolution. About 35 projects have been lined up for inauguration after being completed while 20 others have been earmarked for laying of foundation stones to signal the start their execution as part of celebrations to mark the revolution. On the other hand, President Mwinyi is today slated to grace the inauguration of the upgraded Malindi Fish Landing Site and Marketing Facilities in Urban West District, according to the PS in the Ministry of Blue Economy and Fisheries, Dr Aboud Suleiman Jumbe. The project has been supported by the government of Japan through the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) through Official Development Assistance (ODA). Touted as Zanzibar’s largest fishing port, the facility has been constructed at a cost of 22.75bn/- through a grant from the government of Japan. In a related development, Vice-President Philip Mpango, is later today scheduled to inaugurate a newly built health facility at Kendwa in Mkoani District, South Pemba. The project was constructed through a funding from Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF). Meanwhile, PILLY NASHON reports from Dodoma that Dr Mpango on January 12, this year is expected to officiate at a tree planting exercise in the country’s capital of Dodoma, as part of commemoration of the 59th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution. Addressing a news conference in Dodoma yesterday, the Minister of State Vice-President’s Office (Union Affairs and Environment), Dr Selemani Jafo, said that the expected exercise would take place on January 12, this year. At the news conference, Dr Jafo said the VP would grace the tree planting exercise starting from the Dodoma main bus stand at Nane Nane to Ihumwa area and around Msalato Primary School. He said the exercise will be preceded by other tree planting activities starting today along the Dodoma-Dar es Salaam Road starting from the College of Business Education (CBE) premises to Kilimo Kwanza area. The exercise will be led by Dr Jafo himself. Tomorrow (January 11, 2023), the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Pindi Chana, will lead the tree planting exercise in the area of Swaswa Dam while the Dodoma Regional Commissioner Ms Rosemary Senyamule will lead the exercise at Chidachi Open area in the city’s outskirts.