AWARENESS creation and provision of education to rural residents in Coast Region over importance of using judicial services has started paying off as the number of individuals seeking the services has increased unlike in the past years. Coast Regional Magistrate in Charge Ms Joyce Mkhoi spoke of the new trend over the weekend, saying that there was clear evidence that awareness creation and provision of education were not benefiting urban people alone but also rural dwellers. She noted that more villagers were now receiving knowledge on the benefits of using court services and other legal aid services as well. “We are now witnessing an increase in number of people seeking legal services, especially individuals from rural areas. This is a good indication that understanding on legal matters is growing among the people in different areas,” she said. Ms Mkhoi added that as this year’s theme states: ‘Importance of Solving Conflicts Through mediation in Growing Sustainable Economy – the Role of Court and Stakeholders,’ her office is now focusing on educating individuals on the importance of solving their cases through mediation instead of waiting  to file cases in courts. “We are now focusing on educating people on the importance of getting their rights through mediation and this can be done only if both parties agree on doing so,” she noted. To facilitate the process, she said, her office was working closely with other stakeholders including Commission of Mediation and Arbitration (CMA), Ward  Councils, State Attorney’s Office and other legal providing offices, she explained. However, she said that the mediation was mostly used when solving civil cases. Speaking on the benefits of mediation in solving cases, she said, it helps to prevent revenge between the two parties and creates peace as both parties agree to solve the matter amicably. It also saves time since the court may take long time to arrive at the judgement, a process that gives individuals enough time to participate in economic activities. Ms Mkhoi said that legal sensitisation and education sessions will officially start today as part of the Law Week celebrations which will reach its climax on February 1. “We are going to start our sessions with Mkuza residents in Kibaha Town as well as Mlandizi and Magindu residents in Kibaha District Council,” she said.