SCORES of regional investors and stakeholders are set to meet in Zanzibar for the East and Central Africa institutional investors Forum 2023. Under the theme; “Rethinking Investment Returns in the New Normal, Investing for Impact”, the forum is scheduled for February 22nd and 23rd, this year. The two-day conference will bring together various stakeholders to engage one another on various issues pertaining to contributing to the sustainable economic development of East and Central Africa region, through the attraction of new investment and maximising its impact on the economy. Tanzania has been selected as the host country for this event as it is an increasingly popular investment destination demonstrating high-growth and being politically stable and favour various investments’ growth. According to the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), there are at least nine lucrative sectors that offer investment opportunities in the country, namely-agriculture, livestock, manufacturing, economic infrastructure, mining, tourism, health and education, ICT and aquaculture development. MNCapital Group, a South Africa-based, Africa-focused investment communications firm synonymous with convening high-impact investment conferences, particularly for the large market actors, is the organiser of this particular gathering. The firm’s Group Chief Executive Officer Michael Ndinisa stated: “In the post-pandemic world, local, provincial and national governments across the world are intensifying their economic recovery and development efforts in order to significantly reduce socio-economic challenges that may or may not have been caused by the recent global pandemic, but have been exacerbated as a result.” Ndinisa went on arguing: “This conference will present immense opportunities for institutional investors to uncover new investment opportunities and not only achieve desired return on investment, but also generate social impact.” According to Ndinisa, it is evident that the work ahead will require collective efforts from both the public and the private sector, and this calls for policy amendments (where applicable) to ensure ease of doing business in an effort to attract private-sector involvement in economic recovery strategies. It is therefore very crucial, for the sake of achieving healthy public-private partnerships, for the two sectors of the economy to participate in the stakeholder engagements so that they can engage one another on issues pertaining to such partnerships. Participants at this conference will have an opportunity to meet and engage key stakeholders and foster long-term partnerships, discover best practices presented by top industry thought-leaders. Those participating under the speaker category will present professional perspective on topics of their choice, in line with the conference theme. Participants will also network with senior decision-makers and key investment professionals and solidify existing business relations, and make new ones as well. This conference will also feature trustees’ special workshops to improve investment decision making. The East and Central Africa Institutional Investors Forum 2023 is one of a kind, and will attract guests, speakers, and sponsors from various industries across Africa. “We call upon interested sponsors, delegates and industry players to work with us and make this a success,” he said.