THE Minister of State in President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Ms Angellah Kairuki, has directed that all students who were selected to join Form One in public schools this year should report to their respective institutions by the end of this month. Ms Kairuki made the directives in Tanga yesterday during an assessment meeting which dwelt on implementation, improvement and monitoring of the education sector and the work plan for this year. “All students who were selected to join Form One in public schools should report to their respective schools by January 30, this year. “The exercise of ensuring the students report to their schools should involve Ward Education Coordinators and Ward Executive Officers. You should make close follow up on information of the students who are not in schools and ensure they report before the end of this month,” she directed. The minister directed Deputy Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Governments) who is responsible for the education sector, Dr Charles Msonde, to communicate with the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) to create public awareness by sending text messages to all Tanzanians to remind them to send their children to schools. Ms Kairuki expressed concerns that the government has made massive investments in improving infrastructure in the education sector, but some students have not reported to schools, where they were assigned to. “It does not make sense that some students who were supposed to be in schools have not reported until today. You should conduct an assessment to find out why these learners have not reported on time,” she directed. Ms Kairuki cited Tanga Region where some 27,867 students who were selected to join Form One this year have not reported to schools as of yesterday. The Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Prof Riziki Shemdoe, told the sister paper of this newspaper ‘HabariLeo’ that the office has dispatched a team of officials to make assessment of low turn-out of secondary students countrywide. Speaking to journalists on Sunday, the Director of Tanzania Information Services and Chief Government Spokesperson, Mr Gerson Msigwa, said the number of students who reported for Form One was 354,277, including 697 students with special needs. “The number is equivalent to 33 per cent of 1,070,941 students who were selected to join Form One in public schools this year,” he added. On the other hand, the Chief Government Spokesperson said since schools were re-opened over the past one week, enrollment in primary schools has increased significantly where almost 88.5 per cent pupils have been registered. Mr Msigwa attributed the success to the 1.3tri/- Covid-19 relief funds disbursed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which was used by the government of Tanzania to improve various sectors including education. He added further that a total of 1,446,067 pupils, including 2,942 pupils with special needs were registered to start primary education countrywide. Mr Msigwa said the number represents 88.48 per cent of the target of registering 1,634,365 pupils in public primary schools this year.