YAPI Merkezi, a Turkish company has said diligence and work quality contributed to successful implementation of the previous railway construction projects in the country. The Deputy General Manager of Yapı Merkezi Construction, Mr Hakan Alkan, made the remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony for construction of the 4th Lot of Standard Gauge Railway line from Tabora to Isaka in Shinyanga Region graced by Vice President Dr Philip Mpango “Today, we are happy to add a new one to many successful projects carried out by us in Africa so far,” he said. “Tanzanian railways authorities have also awarded the third and fourth phases of this very important railway line thanks to the diligence and work quality shown by us in the first two sections of the Dar es Salaam-Mwanza Railway in a length of 540 km from Dar es Salaam to Makutupora, which is the longest railway line constructed by a Turkish contractor in Africa and the fastest in East Africa, carried by us in Tanzania,” He said Yapı Merkezi has undertaken big projects globally and this 4th lot is coming after its successful works in the first two phases of the Tanzania Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project. The company had undertaken the 3rd lots works in December 2021 based on its successful works in the first two lots of the project. The Tanzania Railway Corporation has mandated Yapi Merkezi to plan and complete this project in 42 months from January 2023. In addition to all infrastructure works in the single-track railway project in Tanzania, Yapı Merkezi has undertaken all the pieces of construction of a total of three stations between the cities of Tabora and Isaka, a maintenance workshop, and depot area, an Administrative Building, a Railway Institute, construction of 165-km-long single-track railway with sidetracks, signalling, telecommunications and electrification work. The Minister of Works  and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa applauded TRC for the support and guidance given on the SGR project and assured the public that the government intends to invest in transport infrastructure because a robust transport system goes a long way in boosting the economy of the nation. He said 14 per cent of the government revenue is boosted as a result of the movement of goods, services and people. Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) Chief Executive Officer, Mr Masanja Kadogosa said, “SGR will reduce the time it takes to move goods and services and people resulting in reduced prices for goods and services. For example, it will take roughly 8 hours to move from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza. The same will impact local people between these cities”