GOOD News for all Ministry Bishop Dr Charles Gadi has held special prayers asking God to stop ongoing heavy rains in the US, which wreaked havoc in many parts of the country. He, therefore, announced the dawn of a new season in US that would see skipping Winter and Spring seasons as the country goes to Summer season. ” I issue this notice to the companies and government institutions in the US to prepare for Summer season… the notice goes to textile and food companies, farmers, association livestock keepers association , Chamber of Commerce of America , legislative, Congress , House of Representatives , Senate and US Meteorological Agency,” Dr Gadi told journalists yesterday. He said that, the prayers standby the word of God from Ephesians 3: 8 which states that “Although I am less than the least of the entire Lord’s people, this grace was given me: to preach to the Gentiles the boundless riches of Christ,” Dr Gadi explained that on December 21 last year his ministry held special prayers for rain in US. “Most of you have witnessed the results of our prayers as the US experienced heavy rainfall, strong winds, snow and flash floods in many parts of this nation during Christmas celebrations,” he said. He further said that, his ministry had informed US leaders to prepare for the heavy rains, but he was not sure if they took it seriously. Dr Gadi said that the areas which normally get snow during winter season have received heavy snow which interrupted social activities while other people failed to continue with Christmas celebrations. He said the yesterday’s prayers aimed at asking God to grant the US normal rains, which will not cause further havoc and stop the heavy snow, which has continued to affect people during this festival season. On December 24, media reports had it that a wild winter storm continues to envelop much of the United States, bringing blinding blizzards, freezing rain, flooding and life-threatening cold that created mayhem for those travelling over the Christmas holiday. The storm that arrived earlier in the week downed power lines, littered highways with piles of cars in deadly accidents and led to mass flight cancellations on Saturday. The storm was nearly unprecedented in its scope, stretching from the Great Lakes near Canada to the Rio Grande along the border with Mexico, with about 60 percent of the US population facing some sort of winter weather advisory or warning. The frigid temperatures and gusty winds were expected to produce “dangerously cold wind chills across much of the central and eastern US this holiday weekend,” the weather service said, adding that the conditions “will create a potentially life-threatening hazard for travelers that become stranded”. “In some areas, being outdoors could lead to frostbite in minutes,” it warned. Adding to the woes were power outages affecting more than a million homes and businesses, according to the website PowerOutage, which tracks utility reports. As millions of Americans were preparing to travel ahead of Christmas, more than 5,700 flights within, into or out of the US were cancelled on Friday, according to the tracking site FlightAware.