TANZANIAN football legend who formerly coached Simba has lauded his former team for winning four consecutive Premier League titles in the past five years, insisting that they might reclaim the honour again this season. Simba lost the title last season to their traditional rival, Young Africans. Hilal, who was accompanied by  the former CDA  player, Yusuf Abeid, made the remarks on Thursday in Dubai where Simba squad is drilling for the test of their today’s match against Al Dhafra of the United Arab Emirates. After playing with Al Dhafra, Simba will lock horns with CSKA Moscow of Russia on Sunday. “I applaud Simba for sealing four Premier League titles in the past five seasons; winning in four consecutive years is an excellent achievement. However, it is, unfortunately, last year we lost it. This year we have a chance to claim the title. We ought to give our best this season to win the title.” Simba are positioned second in the log, behind the defending champions Yanga who are off them by six points. Simba have bagged 44 points  from  19-game outings. Hilal urged  players to remain focused on the game and believe in themselves as they will surely reclaim the title from Yanga despite being six-point behind. He also urged players to fight hard in their CAF Champions League campaign and meet their target to reach  semifinal stage. Furthermore, Simba’s newly appointed coach, Roberto Oliviera commended his players for giving their best in training, hoping they would deliver the best from what they got. “I am impressed with the players; they are committed and work hard. It gives me a glimpse of what I want to do for the team.” During the training, coach Oliviera awarded Kibu Denis for displaying the best performance at the Dubai camp. Simba left for Dubai camp after their early exit in  Mapinduzi Cup in Zanzibar, which the club officials claimed would be a fruitful tour. The camp aims to drill further the squad ahead of the Premier League and CAF Champions League’s group stage assignments. During their camp in Dubai, Simba confirmed will play two friendly matches before returning to Dar es Salaam on January 17th. According to the newly appointed coach, Roberto Oliviera, the camp in Dubai will help him understand his players and develop his philosophy for the players. Apart from early elimination, Simba have cherished this year’s Mapinduzi Cup saying it was a worthy outing as a good testing ground for the team’s rejuvenated squad despite the early exit. Simba beat KVZ 1-0 in their final group stage game at Amaan Stadium, but they failed to advance following a 1-0 loss to Mlandege in their group opener.