PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi has affirmed his plan of turning Zanzibar into a modern business hub while preserving the Stone Town’s heritage status. Dr Mwinyi expressed the commitment on Saturday when he officiated at the opening of the Zanzibar’s renowned Darajani central shopping area, which has been redesigned and modernised with new small shops for petty traders. “When we started developing Darajani area by enclosing it with an iron sheet fence, some people mocked. But this is the reality. The government is fully committed to change Zanzibar. We are looking forward to constructing a flyover road at Darajani, similar to the flyover I saw in Mwanza,” Dr Mwinyi said at the colourful event. Darajani is among the protected historical areas after the UNESCO recognised Stone Town as a heritage site 2000. About 452 shops opened at the area by the President Mwinyi are owned by Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). The shops to be leased to petty traders, popularly as Machingas or Jua-kali, are among activities that will create jobs for the youths. Dr Mwinyi said the newly developed shopping area would make available different commodities for the residents of Zanzibar and visitors including tourists. He thanked Simba Developers Limited for the reconstruction work at the area that is named as Darajani Souk or Darajani Bazaar. He said the investment carried out is expected to boost  Chama Cha  Mapinduzi’s coffers. President Mwinyi said that it is necessary to ensure that discretion is used in the allocation of petty traders to the new shops while giving priority to those who had been conducting their activities at the area before re-construction. He said the demand for modern shops was still high, hence creating an opportunity for the party to construct more shops for rent. Dr Mwinyi explained that project resulted from the implementation of CCM’s 2020-2025 election manifesto which promised to create conducive business environment and job creation. “Other markets being developed include Mwanakwerekwe, Jumbi, Chuini and Mombasa for the same purpose of  accommodating  more traders in better working environment. He also emphasised on having modern car parking areas, noting: “the construction has been ongoing and residents should be patient during the construction period, because it may cause some inconveniences.” Dr Mwinyi reassured Zanzibaris, particularly stakeholders in the  heritage sites that his government’s intention was not to put the conserved area of Stone Town at risk of being removed from the heritage sites list, but rather to develop Zanzibar while preserving all the special areas. Minister of State- Office of the President, Regional Administrations, Local Governments and Special Departments, Mr Masoud Ali Mohammed thanked Dr Mwinyi for his workable plans that are now contributing into modernising Zanzibar. Director of Simba Developers Limited (ARICAB) Mr Yussuf Azz, also thanked the government and Dr Mwinyi for being visionary. He said the people of Zanzibar should be happy having Dr Mwinyi as a leader because already he has made progress in every sector including tourism, industry, employment, health and other sectors. At the event, the CCM Publicity and Ideology Secretary-Zanzibar, Mr Khamis Mbeto and the  party’s  Secretary for Department of Economy-Zanzibar  Mr Afadhal Taib Afadhal promised to work together to ensure proper collection of revenue from rental fee.