TANZANIA Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC) has organised a one day stakeholders’ meeting to deliberate on strategies to strengthen the cooperative sector in the country. The meeting, expected to bring together 200 stakeholders from various cooperative societies and beyond, is expected to be held at CRDB Headquarters on February 27. TCDC organised the meeting in collaboration with the Tanzania Federation of Co-operatives (TFC). TCDC Chairman, Mr Abdulmajid Nsekela told reporters yesterday that the meeting aims to discuss the development of cooperatives and set a strategy to strengthen the sector, adding that stakeholders’ views are important in improving the cooperative system. “TCDC is determined to improve the way cooperative societies are operate using similar business minds,” Mr Nsekela, who is also the CEO and Managing Director of CRDB, said. He was appointed to chair TCDC by President Samia Suluhu Hassan a fortnight ago. The chairman said to support the development of the cooperative societies, the commission is eyeing to introduce the use of the digital system to increase efficiency hence strengthening the societies’ management. Additionally, the commission wants to provide education on the concept of cooperatives that centred in looking outside the box by opening doors for non-agricultural societies which are not common in the country. “Also as the commission, we want to speed up the process of establishing the national cooperative bank,” Mr Nsekela said while flanked by some leaders from TCDC and TFC. In addition, the meeting will also discuss marketing systems, management and use of the assets of the societies, capital in cooperative associations, and corporate image in the community and operations as business entities. “The commission will make sure the resolutions reached during the meeting will be properly implemented,” he said. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies and TCDC CEO, Dr Benson Ndiege, said that in recent years the sector made a great stride and witnessed several improvements including a capital increase for some societies, and a rise in the collection of government revenue, especially charges from the agricultural sector. The Registrar said that despite the achievements, a lot of work still needs to be done to make the cooperative more productive in the development of individual citizens and the nation as a whole. Some of the stakeholders who are expected to participate in the meeting include the major cooperative societies, the Cooperative Audit and Supervision Corporation (COASCO), and the Moshi Cooperative University (MoCU).