A DELEGATION of the German Parliament- Bundestag, has expressed satisfaction over the various projects being supported by their country, pledging further commitment of support in areas of interest. The delegation comprised of seven legislators from six different political parties led by the chair of the Bundestag Parliamentary Committee for Economic Cooperation and Development Mr Knut Gerschau. During an official reception hosted for the MPs at the German Ambassador’s residence in Dar es Salaam, on Wednesday, Speaker of the National Assembly, Dr Tulia Ackson extended appreciation for the cordial relationship between Germany and Tanzania whose cooperation has existed for the past six decades. “So many Tanzanians have benefitted from the relations including the Germany DAAD sponsorship programmes, the investment of over 400 million US dollars of 173 companies which has created up to 16,000 jobs within the country,” she said, noting that she was also a fellow of the prestigious Alexander Von Humboldt fellowship. According to her, the investment and many other support extended by Germany to complement government efforts was very huge, expressing deep appreciation. On her side, the German Ambassador to Tanzania Ms Regine Hess indicated that the seven MPs came to see how the projects are being carried out and if their taxpayers money was spent meaningfully and efficiently. She outlined some of the projects visited including water and recycling project in Kigoma Region and an organisation that looks after girls who are victims of trafficking. Also, they met and held talks with various citizens; they visited Katavi National Park where they are supporting with infrastructure project to facilitate the rangers with accommodation, aimed at effectively combating poaching. The head of delegation said they were pleased with what they saw, stressing that the goal was to ensure the projects are sustainable and implemented in mutual cooperation between the two countries. “Among such important projects include supporting conservation project in ensuring that human and wildlife live in harmony and clean and safe water projects,” noted Mr Gerschau. A legislator from the Green Party, Ms Ulle Schauws who is also the Chair of Working Group on Women, Senior Citizens, Families, Youth and Queer said they were impressed on the projects relating to human, women and girls rights. Ms Shauws cited the problems as global issue, noting that the goal is to work together to end the scourge. On his part, the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Damas Ndumbaro was of the view that it was critical to nurture and strengthen the existing relations with Germany for mutual benefits of the people from both sides.