SIMBA said representatives of CAF and FIFA are expected to arrive in the country soon to inspect the club ahead of their possible featuring in Africa Super League. This was revealed recently by Simba chairman Murtaza Mangungu in Dar es Salaam who claimed that more details about their arrival will be communicated in soon. If the deal materialises, then Simba will go into record books for being among the first 24 clubs to embrace Africa Super League which whose basic requirement is a club to have a youth academy and a women’s team. In another development, the chairman said they have put in necessary mechanisms to ensure that they win all nine Premier League matches in order to stand a good chance of claiming the title. “We are remaining with 9 matches before the season ends as such, our priority is to make sure that we win each fixture that comes on our way. “What we have to do is to work hard on the pitch and to achieve that, we have energised our team by bringing on board new players as well as the new coach for the sake of recording success,” Mangungu said. He again reiterated that in the CAF Champions League (CAF CL), their target is to reach in the semifinals and play in the finals saying finishing in the quarterfinals is no longer an adventure to them. “One of the reasons why we have recharged our technical bench is simply to help build a strong squad capable to withstand CAF Champions League challenges,” he said. Up next, the Msimbazi Street side welcomes Singida Big Stars at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city tomorrow in a seemingly tense clash of the season. The two teams meet with a 7-point gap separating them as Simba who sit in second place, parade 50 points from 21 matches whereas the Singida-based side has bagged 43 points also from 21-game outings. They played out to a 1-1 draw in their first-round meeting at Liti Stadium in Singida hence an opportunity for the Msimbazi Street Reds to utilise well home ground advantage and come out with a desired win. Meanwhile, Simba Head Coach Roberto Oliveira has landed back yesterday from Brazil where he went to attend to ‘family issues’ as indicated by the management.