THE Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Mohamed Mchengerwa is expected to grace this year’s Kilimanjaro International Marathon to be flagged off in Moshi this Sunday. According to the organisers of the Kilimanjaro Marathon, the minister has confirmed participation and he will be accompanied by other national and regional leaders. “He is expected to flag off the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager   42km full marathon, Tigo 21km half marathon and later participate in the Grand Malt 5km Fun Run,” said the organisers. According to the organisers, all is set at the Moshi Cooperatives University as the Kili Expo which is happening for the second year now bringing together sponsors of the marathon and other businesses to showcase their products and services, starting from yesterday. The organisers said that the four-day expo is happening alongside the collection of running numbers and running kit at the Moshi Cooperatives University  Stadium (MoCU ) Stadium from yesterday, Thursday, February 23rd. The organisers called on the participants to observe the announced times to avoid inconveniences and also called on those collecting numbers for their friends or relatives to ensure they have copies of their identity cards or consent letters allowing the representatives to collect on their behalf. “We hope that the participants will turn up in numbers at this collection point as no numbers will be issued on the race day,” said the organisers adding that those who did not collect their numbers in Dar es Salaam and Arusha can still do so in Moshi on the mentioned dates. They have also warned against those running with fake numbers, which include previous years’ numbers saying they will be removed from the route and arrested. The same applies to those running on other people’s numbers, they will be disqualified from the marathon. “We also warn those who are illegally selling numbers online. We will take legal action against them,” said the organisers. This year’s sponsors include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42km (Main Sponsor), Tigo- 21km Half Marathon, Grand Malt – 5Km Fun Run, water table sponsors TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, Kilimanjaro Water, TotalEnergies and official suppliers Surveyed Plots Company Limited (SPC) Kibo Palace Hotel, CMC Automobiles, GardaWorld, and Keys Hotel. Kili Marathon is organised by the Kilimanjaro Marathon Company Limited and nationally coordinated by Executive Solutions Limited.