Yesterday,   1st  February,  2023;   was  the  anniversary  of  what  has  been  designated  as  “Law  Day”  in  Tanzania.   It  may  be  of  interest  to  the  current stakeholders to  know  that   the  idea  of  designating  this  particular  date  as  Tanzania’s  “Law  Day”,  was the  brainchild  of  the  late  Chief  Justice  Francis  Nyalali  and  was  intended  to  mark  the  commencement  of  the  Judiciary  ‘new  business  year’. For  that  reason   the  celebrations  were   initially  confined  only  to  members  of the  Judiciary  Branch  of Government,  plus   the  legal  fraternity and  were  held   inside  one  of  the  court  rooms  within  the  High  Court  Building  in  Dar es  Salaam.   In  other  words,  this  event  started  as  a  purely  Judiciary  ‘in-house’  affair, intended only  for  those  who  were  directly  concerned. Chief  Justice   Nyalali  had  also  decided  to  invite  the  Speaker  of  parliament  to  attend  these  occasions,  in  order  to  symbolise  participation  from  the  Legislative  Branch and  for  that  reason,  he  was  given  the   leading  role  of  being  the  ‘Guest  of  Honour’.   This  happened  during  the  time when  I  was  the  Speaker  of  the  House,  circa  1996/97. Thus, in   that  connection,  I  can  vividly  remember  how,  on  one  such  occasion,  the  Chief  Justice  had  chosen  the  expression  “Haki  sawa  kwa  wote”  as  the   “kauli  mbiu”  for  that  year’s  celebrations.  When  my  invitation  to  attend  that  function  arrived and  I  saw  that;   I   quickly  wrote  back  to  point  out  that  the  expression  “Haki  sawa  kawa  wote”  was  in  fact  the  slogan of the  CIVIC  UNITED  FRONT  political  party and  showed  my  concern  that  this  was  inappropriate  for  such  a  national  event suggesting  instead the use  of  the  neutral  expression  “Watu  wote  ni  sawa  mbele  ya  sharia”,  which  is  also  used  in article  13 (1)  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  republic.     The  Chief  Justice  promptly  agreed and  the  ‘Kauli  Mbiu’   was  changed  accordingly. But   these  celebrations   soon  developed  into  fully-fledged   national  events;   when  the  President  of  the   United  Republic  accepted  the  Chief  Justice’s  invitation  to  formally   participate  in  these  annual  celebrations,  taking  over  the  role  of    Guest  of  honor.   In  other  words,  these  occasions  now  became  truly  national   events which  brought  together  ‘under  one  roof’,  the  Heads  of  all  the  three  Branches  of  Government;  namely  the  Executive;  the  Legislative  and  the  Judiciary  commonly  referred  to  as  the  three  “Pillars  of State  governance”. It  may  therefore  be  worthwhile  for  the  relevant  stakeholders and  other  interested  parties to  make  use  of  the  opportunity  provided  by  these  special  celebrations,  to  make  some  reflections  on  their   purpose,  aims and  objectives.    As   part  of  the  preliminary  introductory  remarks,  let  me  first  briefly  provide  this   relevant  background  information. Luckily,   by  the  grace  of  God,   I   have   personally   had  a  fairly  long  association   with  the  country’s   “Law  sector”  in  the  course  of  my  service  to  our  nation.    It  started  right  from  my  first   appointment  in  the   service  of  Parliament,   immediately  after  my  graduation  at  Makerere  University  College  in  Uganda,  in  April  1960.  This  was  subsequently  followed  by  my  service  therein   as  MP,  Deputy  Speaker and  eventually  Speaker  of  the  House,  between  1990  and  2005. Since  the  main  function  of  Parliament  is  to  make  laws;   this  gave  me  direct  exposure  to  the  Law  sector.   And  this  was  supplemented  by   several   other  part-time  appointments including  that  of  Chairman  of  the  Judicial  System  Review  Commission,  (1975—1977);    Member  of  the  Tanzania  Law  Reform  Commission,   (1983 – 2005)  and   Member  of  the  Legal  Sector  Reform  Task  Force,  (1993 1994). The   privilege  of  such  exposure  (plus,  of  course,  my  own  keen  interest in  these   matters)  enabled  me  to  acquire  and  accumulate,   substantial   experience  in  this  particular  area,  which  I  am   now  happy  to  share  with  my  readers  of  this  presentation.  And this now  brings  us   to today’s  main  discussion. Reflections  on  the  ‘Law  Day’  celebrations The  “kauli  Mbiu”  for  this  year’s  celebrations  has  been  given  as  “The  importance  of  Conflict  resolution   through  arbitration”.   Thus,  because  I  am    operating  from  my  retirement  home  in  Ukerewe;   I  will   travel   down  memory  lane  back  to  the  colonial  period,   when  the task   of  dispensing  justice  was  shared  between  the  colonial  authorities (the  District  Commissioner) and  the   Native  Authorities  (the  tribal  Chief  and  his  subordinates).   At  that  time,  the  District  Commissioner  was  performing  his  judicial  functions  sitting  in a  proper  Magistrate’s  court,  established  by  law and  so  also  did  the  Chief  of  Ukerewe  and  his  subordinate  Sub-Chiefs  who  also  performed   their  judicial  functions    sitting  in  what  were  designated as  “Native  courts”,  similarly  established  by  colonial  legislation. However,  there  also   was  a  lower  level  of  the  Chief’s  subordinates,  known  as  ‘Village  Headmen’  who  had  no  properly  established  court  rooms and  who  were,  in  fact,   operating  the  ‘arbitration  system’;   whose  wider  use   is  currently  being   advocated and  strongly  urged,  by  the  Judiciary.   This  was  their   method  of  resolving  minor  conflicts  and  disputes  among  individual   persons. “To   everything  there  is  a  reason and  a  time  for  every  purpose  under  heaven”,  so   the   Holy  Bible  says.    In  today’s   presentation,  we  will  endeavor  to  highlight  what,  I  believe,  were   the  intentions  of   the  late  Chief  Justice  Francis  Nyalali  (may  his  soul  rest  in peace),  as  could  be  discerned  from   my  own  frequent  conversations  with  him  at  the  material  times.   To   the  best  of  my  recollections,  the  principal  objective  was  ‘the  need  to  draw  public  attention  to  the  direct  relevance,  as  well  as   the  crucial  importance,  of  ‘the  law’ to  the  community  in  which  it  operates’. This  was  important  and  necessary  because,  under  the  prevailing  circumstances  of  the  material  times;   “the  law”,  was  not  the  kind  of  “bread-and-butter  issue,  that  normally   attract   people’s  attention   in  their  everyday  lives.   The  general  layman’s   view  seemed  to  be (and  probably  still  is),   that  ‘the  law’  comes  knocking   at  your  door  only   when  you  have  committed  an  offence;  and   further  that,  it  is  always   best  to   avoid  getting  involved  in   other  persons’  law  breach  court  cases (mainly  in  order  to  avoid  the  immense  trouble,  and  inconveniences,  that  are  usually  caused  by  such  involvement).   This,  perhaps,  is  what  partly  explains  the  apparent  reluctance,  generally,  among  the  people  to  serve  as  prosecution  witnesses  in  criminal  cases,  which  was  noticeable  in  many  different  locations  of  our  country,  including  Ukerewe,  my  own  District.   And  this  quickly  reminds  me  of  two  frustrating  incidences.   One  was when  a  prospective  key  witness  in  a  corruption  case, after  initially  spilling  the  beans  in  the  said      case,  abruptly  turned round, and  flatly  refused  to  go  to  court  as  a  prosecution  witness;   upon  being  asked  to  do  so  by  myself  as   his  then Member  of  Parliament.   Here  is  the  true  story:- I  had  received  reliable  information  that  earlier  on  that  same  day,  a   medical  doctor   working  at  the  Ukerewe   District  hospital  (who  had  already  earned  the  negative  reputation  of  routinely  seeking  bribes  from  his  patients);   had  on  that day  corruptly  demanded  to   be  given  a  cow by  this  man,    as  an  ‘inducement’  for  the  said  doctor  to  perform  a  life-saving   operation  on  the  man’s  wife,  who  had  failed  to  deliver  normally.   My  informant  further  said  that  at  that   moment  of  his  report,   the  victim  and  his  cow  were  right  there  at  the  hospital  waiting  to hand  over  the  bribe  to  the  said  doctor  after  the  latter  had  completed  the  required  operation. As   my   MP’s  office  was  situated  just  across  the  road  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  District  Hospital,   I  walked   across  to  the  Hospital  to  see  for  myself,  the  alleged  cow  and  its  owner.  Both  were  indeed  there.   And,  in  my  preliminary  inquiry,  the  man  readily  confirmed   the   alleged facts.      Pleased  with  this  hard  evidence,  I  then  asked  him  to  be  a  witness  for  the  prosecution,  in  the   bribery  case  which  we  were  going  to  file  in  the  District  court  right  away.   But  on  hearing  that,  our   man  suddenly  changed,  and  declared   firmly  that   he  was  not  at  all  prepared  to  suffer  the  unnecessary  troubles  and  inconveniences  of  going  to  court.    After  all,  he  said,   this  was  his  cow,    and  he  was,  any  case,  prepared  to  let  it  go,  in  order  to  save  his  wife  and  the  new  baby! The  other  frustrating  event  is  narrated  in  very  minute  details   by  the  last  colonial   Ukerewe District  Commissioner,  Donald  Barton,  in  his  book  titled:   An  Affair  with  Africa,  Tanganyika  remembered, (Authors  On  Line,  England, 2004),   In  that  book,  the  author  describes, with  manifest  bitterness,  how  the  prospective  prosecution  witnesses  to  a  grisly  murder  that   had  been   committed  at  Kisorya  in  Ukerewe   in  June  1959,    who  had  “initially  willingly  emerged  to  give  oral  evidence (much  of  it  circumstantial  but  conclusive);   subsequently  flatly  refused  to  make  formal  statements  and  testify  to  their  veracity  in  court” !    This   situation forced   the  police to  drop  the    charge,  and  release  the  culprits.   “It was extremely  mortifying”,  the  author  laments. But  such  stories  notwithstanding;  it  is  perhaps   necessary  to  emphasise  the  fact,   that  ‘the  law’  (including  the  associated  rules  and  regulations  of  all  sorts),  do  effectively   direct,  and  control,  the  ordinary  life  of  every  person  in  very   many  ways,  even  without  his/her  being  aware  of  it. For  example,  the  traffic  rules  and   regulations  are  designed  to  control  people’s  movements  on  the   roads;  and  there are  similar  rules  and  regulations  for  controlling  people’s  movements  when  travelling   in  the  air,  and  over  the  waters.  And  the  laws  against  trespass,  have  the  effect  of  controlling  people’s  movements  over   areas  of  other  people’s  land.   While  there   numerous  other  laws  and  regulations,   which  control  peoples’  behavior  in  relation  to  each  other;  and  also   in  relation  to  the  environment  around  them.  Then,  of  course,  there  are  the  criminal  laws;  which  are   designed  to  give   appropriate  punishment  to   the  criminal  elements  in  society. In  other  words,  people’s  lives  are    controlled,  all  the  time,  by  ‘the  law’.    As   the  saying  goes:   “a  book  of  rules  is  placed  in  our  cot  when  we  are  born,  and  we  remain  with  it  until  we  reach  the  grave”.   Members  of  the public  must  be  made  aware  of  these  facts;  plus  the  subsidiary  benefits  that  would  accrue  from  such  basic  awareness  of  these  general  aims  and  objectives  of  ‘the  law’,   in  relation  to  the  community  in  which  it  operates;   which   include:  the  creation  in  a  person,  of   enhanced   capability  in  dealing   with  the  diverse  challenges  that  are  generally  caused  solely   by  ‘ignorance  of  the  law’. It   is  my  contention  that  such awareness  will  be  greatly  enhanced   by   this  practice,   of   the  relevant  stakeholders  making  it  their   regular  habit   of  utilising   these  “Law  Day” celebration  events  to  engage  themselves  in  serious  reflections  on  these  important  matters,  in  a   properly  structured  manner.   In   my   considered   opinion,   such  awareness   plays  a   role  which  is  similar  to  that   of   “preventive  medicine”;   because  it  enables   a  person  to  easily  recognise  the  ‘symptoms’  of   any  pending  law  breach,  a  recognition   which   will,  hopefully,  facilitate  his  avoidance  to  commit  such  breaches,  if  he  really  cares. It  is  therefore  my  earnest  plea  to  the  relevant  Authorities  to   give  active  consideration  to  this  matter  of  organising   seminars  and   workshops,  or  other  instruments;  which  would   enable  interested  stakeholders  to  come  together  and  hold  discussions,  or  exchange  views,   for  the    purpose  of  contributing  to   the  sensitisation  of  the   current  larger  numbers of  the   younger  generation  stakeholders,   regarding  the  said   original  purpose,  as  well  as  the   ‘aims  and  objectives’,  of  these  annual  ‘Law  Day’  celebrations. piomsekwa@gmail.com  /  0754767576.