TANZANIA has expressed its readiness to work closely with all partners and communities to attain the global target of ending AIDS in children come 2030. Vice President Dr Philip Mpango said that the government recognises that providing essential treatment to women, adolescent girls and children living with HIV is one of the key pillars of bringing about meaningful and inclusive and sustainable development. The VP made the remarks during the launch of the Global Alliance on Ending AIDS in Children by 2030 held in Dar es Salaam involving health experts from 12 countries on the African continent, who are putting together global strategies to eradicate AIDS pandemic in children. The new Global Alliance for Ending AIDS in Children by 2030 was announced by leading figures at the International AIDS Conference held in Montreal, Canada on August last year. “Tanzania is also pleased to be among the 12 countries from the region that the first phase of the alliance will focus on,” he said. He said that despite remarkable progress in slowing down the spread of HIV and reducing the number of AIDS related deaths around the global; there are inequalities in responding to the pandemic facing mainly children and adolescents globally. The  VP said according to UNAIDS World AIDS Report in 2021 a total of  800,000 children living with HIV were still not on live serving treatment. He said more alarming is the fact that AIDS has been singled out as the number one cause of deaths among adolescents in Africa and the second leading cause of deaths among adolescents globally. “Even though we seem to know quite well what needs to be done to eliminate the vertical transmission of HIV and meet the treatment needs for children, still the progress has stalled and the gap in treatment coverage between children and adults is widening,” he said. The government of Tanzania is committed to endinh HIV pandemic as public threat by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs) target. “As a country we have made a significant progress towards the set global HIV target since  as September  last year ,  92 per cent of individuals  knew their HIV  status, 98.3 were kept on ARVs  and up to 96,2 percent  of those on medication  attained viral suppression,” he pointed out. He added that, the sixth phase government in collaboration with partners Global Fund, President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and private sector continues to invest in HIV health care facilities including convectional testing laboratories. “In a span of two years the country has managed to increase the number of laboratories from 54 to 130,” Dr Mpango said. He said despite the achievements recorded to date, women are still facing disproportion of HIV burden mostly pronounced among adolescent girls and young women aged between 15 to 24, who are two to three times more affected than their male counterparts. The VP added that, Tanzania is still facing pediatric new infections as records show that in 2021 there were about 9,400 new child infections transmitted from mother to child. “This is partly attributed to insufficient quality of care services especially missed opportunity for HIV care, lack of treatment  and support services  and Antiretroviral therapy (ART) ART during pregnancy  and breastfeeding among HIV positive mothers,” he said. He added that the country also experience the challenge of community engagement and ownership to support a comprehensive prevention of new infections through mother to child transmission. He said in addressing the shortcomings the government continues to equip health facilities with appropriate tools to enhance HIV care and treatment services for pregnant women and children. Dr Mpango said between January   and September last year, 99 percent of first antenatal care attendees received HIV counseling and testing services. He said among those tested 2.9 per cent were HIV positive and a total of 49, 953 which is equivalent to 96 per cent were enrolled in prevention from mother to child transmission program and have access to earlier ARVs. He said among those tested 2.9 per cent were HIV positive and a total of 49, 953 which is equivalent to 96 per cent were enrolled in prevention from mother to child transmission program and have access to earlier ARVs. Dr Mpango noted that, a total of 34, 364 which is about 88 per cent HIV exposed infants started antiretroviral prophylaxis and received the first HIV test at their second month. He said despite the fact that the country is optimistic with the achievements that have been realized, but there still more to be done to close the gap. Dr Mpango said through the implementation of the priorities outlined in the four pillars of the global alliance member countries will be able to advance towards the goals of ensuring that children are free from HIV by 20230. He also said that there is a great need of having an integrated and inclusive and multisectoral approach to address the structural barriers to enhance lives and wellbeing of children and of women while strengthening community response. According to the data  released  recently in the UNAIDS Global AIDS Update 2022 globally, only half (52 per cent ) of children living with HIV are on life-saving treatment, far behind adults where three quarters (76 per cent ) are receiving antiretrovirals.