ARUSHA International Conference Centre (AICC) plans to roll out new and unique services to win back over the trust of its former clients and regain its lost glory, the newly appointed Managing Director, Ephraim Mafuru has said. Briefing reporters here yesterday as he reported to his new workstation, Mafuru said he would work tirelessly to make sure AICC thrives in the highly competitive conference service market that has of recently experienced tremendous growth. “We are determined to retain our customers who sought conference related services elsewhere. Our sole objective is to see AICC returns to where it was for many years,” he said. As a starter, Mr Mafuru disclosed that the conference facility will roll out a number of new and unique services with a view of attracting a wide range of clients to the convention centre. The newly appointed AICC boss further disclosed that there would be massive investment on the conference facility to suit the ever-changing needs and demands, as far conference service is concerned. “This will be a unique opportunity to market the centre and eventually sell AICC as a package,” explained Mr Mafuru. Also on his to-do list will be task of liaising with hotel owners and tour operators with the aim of bolstering the prospects of conference tourism, which Tanzania banks on as an alternative tourism product. According to the AICC Managing Director, AICC had a multiplier effect on Arusha residents, as it does not only cater for conference services, but also host other services as well. In the same vein, Mr Mafuru disclosed plans of reviving plans of constructing Mt Kilimanjaro International Conference Center (KICC), an idea conceived more than a decade ago, but came to a long hiatus. AICC had in the recent past allocated space for its construction at Themi area, along Njiro road. The proposed convention centre will also feature multi-purpose exhibition halls, flexible and divisible spaces for exhibition, large scale pop concerts and banquets. It is also likely to feature retail shops, a five star hotel and ample car park. Built in the 1970s as the headquarters for the short-lived East African Community intergovernmental body before its conversion to its present use, the AICC once hosted the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) until it wound up its activities in November 2015. It also rents out offices at the headquarters’ complex and housing units in Arusha Municipality. The Centre provides health services through its medium-sized 32 bed hospital in the Arusha Municipality. The Centre is wholly owned by the Government of Tanzania and operates under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation. It operates as a fully-fledged commercial entity without Government subvention.