THE newly appointed Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Pindi Chana has called on football fans to flock to Benjamin Mkapa Stadium to cheer Simba and Young Africans in their tough assignments this weekend. The Tanzanian envoys play Raja Casablanca and TP Mazembe in CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup matches respectively this weekend both keen to stamp vital home wins. Meanwhile, both Simba and Yanga have intensified preparations as they face major tests after a disappointing start in their away assignments hence, an opportunity to write a new chapter in their respective groups. Simba who take on Raja Casablanca at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow are leaving no stone unturned making sure that they sharpen well their swords ready to see off the Moroccan giants. They are aware that bagging three points is going to put them back on track in terms of qualifying for the quarterfinals package of the contest which is their top priority. The club’s Media and Communication Manager Ahmed Ally yesterday disclosed that morale among players is high and that all of them are working hard in the training field to earn playing time on the day. “So far, so good in our squad and our players are looking forward to this match because it is set to define our destiny in group C of the champions league hence getting positive results essential to us. “Hosting them at home is an advantage to us that is why all necessary means to stamp success and walk away with joyous faces have been taken into consideration,” he said. His Yanga counterpart, Ally Kamwe also disclosed that their Avic Town camp in Kigamboni is progressing well prior to welcoming TP Mazembe at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on Sunday. Similarly, the Jangwani street side needs to record victory on the day in order to rejuvenate their chances of going beyond the group stage category. “Our preparations are going on well and you can see from players that they are determined to recover from the 2-0 loss to  US Monastir in our opening game in Tunisia. “We are aware that engaging TP Mazembe is never an easy game but this time around, with the intensity of the game itself, players are willing to give it all on the battlefield,” Kamwe said. He then drummed for many supporters to descend at the venue in big numbers to provide the necessary boost to players so that they can be able to sweat for the demanded results.