ZANZIBAR and Swedish governments have agreed to collaborate in power generation to facilitate investments in the islands. Responding to President Hussein Mwinyi’s invitation to prospective Swedish investors to the islands’ energy sector, Swedish Ambassador to Tanzania Charlota Ozaki Macias said the Nordic nation is ready to work with Zanzibar to address power challenges, noting that Sweden is blessed with skilled experts in the sector. Dr Mwinyi, speaking at Vuga-based State House here, said Zanzibar is determined to generate her own electricity, inviting the Swedish companies to support the drive. “We (Zanzibaris) intend to generate our own electricity and we are open for talks with any Swedish company on the feasibility study; Zanzibar Electricity Corporation (ZECO) is keen to embark on the study, any time,” President Mwinyi said. He said Zanzibar is serious about becoming self-reliant in power generation to sustain her economy, saying currently the islands receive only 100MW from Tanzania Mainland. Dr Mwinyi thanked the Swedish government for its support to the revolutionary government’s drive to uplift the social and economic welfare of the islanders. He cited education and agricultural sectors, with reference to seaweed farmers in Pemba island, saying: “We highly appreciate the Swedish support in education and agriculture; your support to seaweed farming women has accelerated the government efforts to create jobs for wananchi, especially women.” President Mwinyi reiterated the government’s keenness to the blue economy, thanking Sweden for her support. He described the implemented seaweed and fish farming projects, which Sweden supports under the blue economy in Pemba as a big boost to the government efforts. Seaweed farming in Zanzibar is undertaken by mainly women, said Dr Mwinyi, appreciating the Swedish government for women empowerment. He further said the government has accomplished many education projects but it still requires support from her development partners. Reacting, Ambassador Macias said her country will continue working closely with the revolutionary government in various sectors. She cited the fruitful cooperation with the ministry of education and vocational training in equipping school dropouts, especially girls, with skills through practical training. Ambassador Macias assured President Mwinyi that Sweden and Zanzibar will sustain the existing cordial working relation in promoting investments, saying Sweden is ready to participate in the feasibility studies for prospective investments. The diplomatic cooperation between Tanzania and Sweden started over 50 years ago, with collaborations in social and economic development through the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA). Sweden has during the period extended immense development support to Tanzania, including Zanzibar especially in the education sector.