RELIABLE transportation in Lake Victoria is an important thing in avoiding challenges caused by accidents that can lose lives of passengers using water transport, as well as loss of various types of products through Tanzanian engineers is a great comfort and relief. Tanzania has taken a satisfactory step in water transport equipment maintenance by having national institutions capable of carrying out maintenance of water transport equipment with high quality from the initial stages of maintenance to completion. The Tanzania Shipping Agency (TASAC) with a vision ‘To be the leading Shipping Agency in the management of water transport that will help transform Tanzania into the best transportation system in the world’, Tanzania is at the forefront of ensuring that it has safe transportation for its people when they use water transport. Construction of ferries goes hand in hand with improvements in the maintenance of high-quality passenger and car[1]go ships. The mission is to ensure the existence of business services and water transport that are safe, reliable and a friendly environment in contributing to economic and social development. Due to this fact, more than 13.96 bn/- and 1,648,625.00 US dollars have been set aside for Songoro Marine Transport Ltd of Mwanza city to build three ferries in Lake Victoria to be used for transport between Sengerema, Ukerewe and Magu in Mwanza region with the aim of assuring Tanzanians of the certainty of their transportation from government’s funds. Tanzania Electrical Mechanical Electronics Services Agency (TEMESA) Chief Executive, Mr Lazaro Kilahala said this during a launching of construction of three crossing ferries between Bwiro to Bu[1]kondo, Nyakalilo to Kome and Ijinga to Kahangala. Songoro Marine Transport Ltd that is located in Mwanza was established 20 years ago and it is also called Boatyard; this patriotic company has a lot of experience in constructing ships, ferries, repairing all equipment that travel in water at the best international standards. Songoro Marine Transport Limited is implementing the project which, when com[1]pleted, will enable passengers to cross the lake to the islands in those areas without fear and increase their economic activities in the area. Mr Kilahala said that the boat will be built in accordance with the standards of the International Maritime Organization (IMO) which are managed by the Tanzania Shipping Agency Corpora tion (TASAC) from the initial stage to the end. He said that in this financial year the agency contin[1]ues to build eight new crossing ferries Kisorya – Rugezi, Bwiro – Bukondo, Nyakalilo – Kome, Ijinga – Kahangala and Mafia – Nyamisati contracts worth 33.2 bn/ have been signed and initial payments have already been made and projects continue to be implemented. Deputy Secretary General in the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Commu[1]nications (Construction), Mr Ludovick Nduhiye, said that in the year 2022/2023 the agency will build eight new crossing ferries, repair 14 fer[1]ries and 11 infrastructures to increase efficiency. He said that so far proj ects worth 60.3bn/ have been signed and the implementation of these projects is at dif[1]ferent stages in all areas of the country while 15.6 bn/ have been paid for the projects. Mr Nduhiye said that the launch of the construction of the ferry is based on the great needs of the people in those areas, so after completion it will help to end the problems in those areas. “We are asking people to protect those projects that have spent a lot of money so that they can last for a long time and contractors consider professionalism and ethics in construction,” said Mr Nduhiye. He said that the ministry hopes residents in those areas will have reliable ferry transport and use the same care fully to carry out economic activities as emphasized by the government for economic development. Mwanza Regional Commissioner, Mr Adam Malima congratulated the government for providing funds for the construction of three ferries through Songoro Marine Transport Ltd Company of Mwanza to do the work and citizens have been given jobs to do. Mr Malima said he was happy to hear that in this financial year 2022/2023, TEMESA is continuing with the construction and purchase of eight new crossing ferries while five are at the construc[1]tion stage mentioning Kisorya-Rugezi, Bwiru-Bukondo, Nyakarilo-Kome, Ijinga -Kahangala, and Nyamisati Mafia. He said that contracts worth 33.2 bn/ have been signed and the contractors have been paid in advance and the work is going on while the remaining three crossings are at the procurement stage and their construction is expected to start in this financial year. Songoro Marine Transport Ltd Director, Mr Meja Son[1]goro said that the ferry from Bwiro to Bukondo and Ijinga to Kahanagala will have the capacity to carry 100 tons, 200 passengers and 10 small cars. He went on to say that the ferry from Nyakalilo to Kome will have the capacity to carry 170 tons, 800 passengers and 22 small cars. Mr Songoro said they have planned to ensure that the three ferries are built to international quality standards and completed within the contract in July this year as agreed between them and TEMESA. He praised the government of the sixth phase for continuing to trust patriotic contrac[1]tors in implementing the con[1]struction of various projects as this step enables Tanzanians to get employment. Member of Parliament for Buchosa, Mr Erick Shigongo thanked the government for starting to construct the crossing ferries, saying that completion of project will be a great help in the area to enable citizens to travel more safely. “Citizens in those islands after completion of projects will be able to travel and even send their patients to hospital and health centres early to receive treatment,” said Mr Shigongo. He said that the existing ferries did not have enough security and certainty to trans[1]port passengers reliably as they were constructed long time. “We commend the firm commitment of the sixth phase government for investing great efforts to ensure that Tanzanians have safe transportation all the time when they travel by water,” he said.