AS the government continues to implement various development projects countrywide, leaders have been instructed to effectively supervise their executions and ensure quality and the value for money observed. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa made this call here on Tuesday, while speaking to the residents of Kakozi area in Momba District, Songwe Region as part of his working visit in the region. The Premier was in Songwe Region to inspect development projects and oversee achievements recorded by the government within two years’ time, including a state-of- the-art international market for crops and livestock and six warehouses. “I am pleased with the implementation of the project and the stage which has been attained…I would like to acknowledge the Momba District Authority for executing the projects,” said Mr Majaliwa. Expounding further, the PM indicated that the project which received a total of 8.6bn/- from the central government consists of the construction of an abattoir and a livestock dip. Upon its completion, the project is expected to spur the council’s internal revenue collection, making possible for the construction of various infrastructures for the delivery of social services. For her part, Momba Legislator Ms Condester Sichalwe (CCM) used the opportunity to extend appreciation to the government for the approval of the large sum within two years. According to her, the fund would enable the implementation of development projects which includes 7.8bn/- for water projects. Aside from the achievements, the lawmaker asked the government to support the completion of rural electrification and construction of hostels in secondary schools in the area, with the PM noting that 22 villages out of 72 villages have been supplied with electricity. He disclosed that President Samia Suluhu Hassan expects to see every Tanzanian household connected with electricity. In another development, the Premier also spoke with the residents of Tunduma Town and expressed the government’s readiness to continue implementing development projects as per the demand, applauding the Town Executive Director for effective supervision of revenues there. On his part, the Deputy Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Mr David Silinde extended recognition for successfully implementing various development projects which accounts for over 11bn/- in the constituency within two years. Mr Silinde outlined the projects as including the construction of Songwe Secondary School (4bn/-), four health facilities (2.5bn/-), water projects (4bn/-) and Maporomoko Ward Secondary School (1bn/-). Similarly, he noted that the budget for Tanzania Rural and Urban Road Agency (TARURA) has increased to 4bn/- from the previous 1bn/- .