GOOD news for young golfers as the U.S. Kids Golf has announced  the inaugural NCBA Uganda Open at Lake Victoria Serena in April this year. The event to tee off on April 9 and 10 this year, will take place at the Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort and Spa in Uganda. Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) honourary secretary, Madina Iddi told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the country’s youth  have also been invited to participate in the big event. She said this is a vital platform for young  Tanzanians to test their skills and gain much-needed experience in competition so as to grow stronger. Iddi invitation they have received from Uganda has been distributed to the members for them to consider as this is an individual tournament. She added that the country has good number of young players who  have  attended various  golf development training, hence the Ugandan tour  can be useful for their development. The U.S. Kids Golf international events offer the best chance to young golfers to compete against their counterparts from across the world. International events began with the inaugural European Championship in 2008. Uganda has taken a step forward in East African countries to organise the maiden event at the Serena course which has outstanding views of the lake and ample bird life. It is rated among the best courses in the East Africa region because of its unique features. The NCBA Uganda Open at Lake Victoria Serena offers young golfers the opportunity to compete in multi-day championship events and qualify for U.S. Kids Golf Priority Status. By earning different levels of Priority Status, players can qualify for other U.S. Kids Golf Major Championships including Regional, International, and World or World Teen Championships, according to tournament Director Lola Geerts who is also a U.S Kids Tournaments Development Europe, Africa, and Middle East. Geerts was quoted saying: “Please note that the deadline to earn Priority Status towards the World Championships via multi-day tournaments (including Regionals, State Invitationals, International Championships, International Partner Events, and our all-new Teen Series) is May 31st  of each year. “Because this event falls before the May 31 deadline, this International Partner Event does serve as a qualifying event for the 2023 World Championships.”