ABOUT 58 under-age girls in Muleba and Missenyi districts who dropped out of school due to early pregnancies have made progress enabling them to return back to normal life with assistance from the North-Western Diocese under the Evangelical Lutheran Church (NWD-ELCT). NWD Bishop Abednego Keshomshahara told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that the church had taken a holistic approach through conducting entrepreneurship programmes aimed to help underage girls, who get pregnancies to get back to normal life. “The NWD is committed to help under-age girls who became pregnant to realise their dreams. The underage girls would still be resourceful to the nation’s development and the family as a whole,” he said. Elaborating, he said apart from getting training in entrepreneurship skills the girls were also supported with sewing machines that enabled them to get some money to raise their children. Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Mr Omar Kipanga told Parliament in Dodoma recently that during 2021/2022 period,   a total of 1,554 girls who were attending primary schools across the country dropped out due to early pregnancies. He explained that on the other hand, a total of 7,457 girls who were attending secondary schools across the country also dropped out due to pregnancies. “Out of the number, about 1,692 girls had already been allowed to rejoin schools,” he said. The state has warned quite categorically that no leniency will be extended to men with erotic mindsets who hoodwink schoolgirls into unwittingly consenting to illicit love affairs that often result in unwanted pregnancy. The state committed itself to implement the UN Child Rights Convention which was adopted unanimously in 1989. Tanzania ratified it in 1991. The convention places special emphasis on the child’s right to education, health, nutrition, shelter, safety and the right not to be discriminated against. Women’s potential to nation building and other frontiers is curtailed when schoolgirls are pulled out of classrooms.