THE Zanzibar Petroleum Development Company (ZPDC) has signed an agreement with the Global Events Partners Limited (GEP)-a move that will enhance the ongoing programmes in oil and natural gas exploration. In the course, the Minister for Blue Economy and Fisheries, Mr Suleiman Masoud Makame on Sunday graced the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) at the Stone Town, in Zanzibar City. Mr Makame stated that the partnership will bring productivity and positive results in strengthening and promoting Zanzibar. ZPDC Managing Director Mikidadi Alli Rashid, and Mr Faheem Ayham Noor- CEO of GEP signed and exchanged the documents that will also pave the way for organising the planned Zanzibar Energy and Industries Summit (ZEIS) scheduled for July this year. Elaborating, the Minister added: “Apart from boosting the oil and gas and energy sector, holding the conference will help promoting tourism, especially given that the visitors who will participate will create employment opportunities for our youth in the tourism sector which is part of the blue economy. “A summit or conference is an opportunity for Zanzibar’s economic growth and employments creation as the event participants normally visit our tourist attractions in our country.” In a related development, he urged leaders and executives of ZPDC and other related institutions to work hard, be creative and innovative, honest and confident in managing their responsibilities. He said their efficiency and commitment remain vital in developing the oil and natural gas sector in this country, adding that if performed well, Zanzibar’s economy will grow and guarantee energy for local and foreign investors. During the event, Mr Rashid thanked the government for initiating and enabling its Oil and Natural Gas company to sign an agreement with the Global Event Partners Limited, noting: “It will help us get known internationally and get experience.” Mr Rashid further said that the ZEIS comes at a time when his office was planning to release more blocks, in Zanzibar territorial waters, for Oil and gas exploration. On his part, Noor said: “We are happy to get this opportunity to start working with Zanzibar. We hope to advertise the Islands and link with investors globally. The upcoming summit is to be attended by more than 500 participants from more than twenty countries.” In response, the Ministry of Blue Economy and Fisheries Principal Secretary (PS) Dr Aboud Suleiman Jumbe said the new partnership between ZPDC and GEP and the upcoming summit further opens Zanzibar to the world in the development of oil and natural gas at this this time when Zanzibaris are eagerly waiting for oil boom. “The search and assessment results, so far, gives hope of possible oil and gas development in future,” he said. The House of Representatives standing committee on economy led by its Chairperson Ms Salha Filfil Thani; representatives from the Petroleum Upstream Regulatory Authority (PURA); Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and other executives from other public institutions witnessed the signing ceremony. Although the oil and natural gas agenda in Zanzibar dates back to 1950s, it was until in 2018 when Zanzibar government signed an agreement with Ras Al Khaimah Company for survey in some blocks, pre-drilling, aerial exploration and deployment of offshore infrastructure for drilling of trial wells.