THE government has wished the country’s envoys in the group stage of CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup all the best in their away openers this weekend. Simba who represents the country in the Champions League, meet Horoya of Guinea in Conakry today while Young Africans who play against US Monastir of Tunisia, will be in action in Tunis tomorrow. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa blessed the teams at the National Assembly in Dodoma on Friday during his closing remarks of the parliament session. “We wish our envoys Simba and Young Africans all the best in their matches against Horoya and Monastir in Tunisia on February 12th. Our message to them is ‘Overpower them’,” he said. Additionally, Majaliwa wished the CAF Champions League’s representatives, Simba the best of luck in their today’s match in Guinea. “Our message to Simba is ‘Outclass the Guineans with many goals…we have no doubt with your performance as Simba are among the top 10 teams in Africa,” the PM said. Meanwhile, all is ready as Simba take on Horoya in their Group C opening fixture at Stade General Lansana Conte Stadium in Conakry, Guinea today. The Msimbazi Street Reds who landed safely in Guinea on Thursday night, have put on serious face to ensure that they stamp convincing results from the away territory. However, after today’s match, Simba will host Raja Casablanca of Morocco at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on February 18th. This will be their first home encounter of the competition set to unfold before a fully packed stadium as CAF scrapped live attendance restrictions. On February 25, Simba will travel to Uganda to take on Vipers before hosting them here on March 7th with both legs expected to be explosive to either side. However, the Simba brigade passed fit for Guinea mission consists of Aishi Manula, Beno Kakolanya, Ally Salum, Shomari Kapombe, Israel Mwenda, Gadiel Michael, Mohamed Hussein, Henock Inonga, Joash Onyango, Erasto Nyoni, Kennedy Juma and Mohamed Quattara. Others are Ismael Sawadogo, Sadio Kanoute, Mzamiru Yassin, Nassor Kapama, Clatous Chama, Pape Sakho, Kibu Denis, John Bocco, Moses Phiri, Jean Baleke, Habib Kyombo and Mohamed Mussa.