PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has announced a 5m/- package for each goal Simba and Young Africans score  in their CAF Interclub matches this weekend. The highly motivating news was revealed yesterday by The Director of Information Services and Chief Government Spokesperson Gerson Msigwa. Simba host Raja Casablanca in the CAF Champions League duel at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday as the former target to stamp first win in this year’s campaign. On the other hand, Yanga welcome TP Mazembe at the same venue on Sunday in the CAF Confederation Cup clash with Nasreddine Nabi’s charges also seeking their first victory of the contest. Meanwhile, the government said doors are wide open for private sectors to support sports development in terms of tactical and infrastructural development. Acting Director of Sports in the Ministry for Culture, Arts, and Sports Ally Mayay made the remarks recently in Dar es Salaam when he presided over the launch of Super Woman Boxing contest. He said the private sectors are very important when it comes to investment in sports as such, the government has its doors open ready to welcome them. “There are a number of areas which demand full cooperation with private sector like to scale up technical and infrastructure means which are vital areas when it comes to sports development,” Mayay noted. He, therefore, lauded  the organisers of the Super Woman Boxing event for coining it saying for the first time, Tanzania is set to embrace an all-women boxing competition. “This is very important and as a government, we appreciate the works you do to diversify the sport of boxing by attracting more women to embrace it. “Gone are the days when boxing used to be an amateur sport…but now, it is a professional sport whose capital circulation is great and many people are benefiting from it aside from boxers and coaches,” he said. Earlier, the coordinator of the competition Khadija Khamis said eight bouts will be staged during the event to be held at Ubungo Plaza in Dar es Salaam on March 11th. “It is an international competition hence female boxers from Tanzania and outside the country will showcase their boxing talents to the public,” she said. Moreover, Khadija cemented that sports nowadays is a source of employment hence people should be willing to engage in various sporting disciplines and never be afraid if a chance to compete arises.