ALL is set as the Tanzanian envoys Moshi Khalsa hockey team engage in a battle for Africa Cup for the Club Champions against Kenya Police today. Organised by African Hockey Federation (AfHF), the week-long event that kicked off yesterday, winds up February 19th  at the City Park Stadium and the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, in Kenyan capital, Nairobi. Tanzania Hockey Association (THA) chairman Kaushik Doshi said the Mapinduzi Cup championship also served as the national club championship and was won by Moshi Khalsa who now represent Tanzania in the continental club-level battle. He said that the team that arrived in Nairobi over the weekend for the opening game, is in a good shape and was scheduled to open their campaign against Police Machine of Nigeria in group B yesterday before facing the hosts. The team is under the Head Coach Varinderpal Bhamra, packed into pool B together with  Sharkia of Egypt, GRA of Ghana, Police Machine (NGR), Hippo from Zimbabwe and hosts Kenya Police. Moshi Khalsa players heading to Kenya are Anganile Kapuku, Damasi Kimaro, Adam Tingo, Salum Kibwana, Issa Kavitile, Swalehe Kihaiyo, Athumani Kitundu, Themison Kisonga, Innocent Mramba, Said Madevu, Peter Mkoi, Rashid Kondo, Yohana Mamuya, Paulo Kuriani and team captain Sultan Issa. The Tanzanian envoys will return to pitch tomorrow for their third match against GRA of Ghana. Thursday, according to the fixture is a rest day before resuming on Friday when Moshi Khalsa will take on Sharkia of Egypt before concluding their group stage against Hippo on Saturday. Doshi added that for the first time Tanzania has sent one lady umpire, Zuwena Hassan to officiate the tournament’s matches. About 12 men’s teams battle it out for the top title while seven compete in the women’s category that, however, Tanzania didn’t send an envoy. This is 33 men’s editions while for women’s is the 24th  edition. Hosts Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) chairman Nashon Randiek was quoted as saying they are on course for the annual African Cup for Club Championship in Nairobi despite a few challenges. Kenya was picked to host the event after Malawi and South Africa pulled out due to personal reasons. Sharkia, Zamalek (Egypt); Ghana’s Exchequers, Nigerian Kada Stars, and Weatherhead from Uganda are in the men’s Group A joining hosts pair Butali Warriors and Western Jaguars.