AS part of its efforts to increase awareness of general insurance products across Dar es Salaam, NMB Bank has launched an integrated campaign in Dar es Salaam geared towards bridging the insurance gap and addressing negative perceptions around the insurance sector. The three-week campaign christened ‘Umebima’ that was flagged off on Wednesdayseeks to educate Dar es Salaam residents about benefits that can be derived from general insurance covers as part of the bank’s efforts creating an insured community. Speaking during the launch of the campaign, the Dar es Salaam Zonal Manager Mr Donatus Richard said the bank’s initiative underlines the bank’s commitment  to sensitize the public on the significance of investing in various kinds of insurance, including health insurance, life insurance, fire insurance and motor insurance among others. “Our ‘UmeBima’ campaign is designed to inspire positive change within all members of the community.  NMB Bank is committed to lead the change of the insurance industry in  Dar es Salaam region and Tanzania as a whole by offering the best insurance solutions that best respond to the needs of Tanzanians right from grassroots level,” he said. NMB Bancassurance Head, Mr Martin Massawe said during the event that after securing a permit to offer Bancassurance products across the country three years ago the bank is dedicated to offer innovative and relentless investments in the digitization of its insurance products services, which has cemented its position in the insurance sector. “We will continue bringing further solutions that will allow our customers to be in full control of all their insurance needs instantly, remotely and from anywhere they are. The objective is to drive awareness about the many benefits of general insurance while creating a narrative that highlights the vitality of it in our everyday lives,” he said. He reaffirmed the bank’s commitment to continue simultaneously educating customers and non-bank about some unknown facts with regard to insurance, eradicating old beliefs about insurance. “Insurance customers in Tanzania are either under insured or uninsured. The overall penetration of general insurance is extremely low. At NMB Bank, we are hoping to connect with the audience and promote insurance as a personal risk management tool,” Mr Massawe said. The Ubungo District Commissioner, Mr Hashim Komba thanked the bank for launching the campaign in Dar es Salaam and urged it to take insurance products to grassroots levels, including market places within the region. “Our life system is full of uncertainties that can adversely affect our lives or property. These challenges need covers because no one knows tomorrow. The only thing we are certain of is the past. In this case, insurance covers against various risks would be the only option,” Mr Komba said. He urged the bank to ensure taking the campaign to various special groups including boda boda riders and petty traders popularly known as machinga in order to have a multiplier effect in the region. Ms Catherine Wilson (40), a trader operating in Ubungo at Simu 2000 Bus Terminal thanked the bank for taking stress-free insurance services closer to businesspeople and operating in the area, adding that the insurance covers provided will be a relief to many traders.