All roads lead to the Moshi Club and Moshi University grounds this weekend where top artists including Harmonize and Mario will take to the stage to colour the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager International Marathon weekend.
Speaking to the press, the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Manager, Pamela Kikuli said all is set and that the two top artists will lead a line-up of artists who are expected to take Moshi by storm during the marathon weekend.
“We are all set and look forward to a memorable weekend as we mark the 21st anniversary of the Kili Marathon which usually goes with thrilling entertainment,” she said.
She said Harmonize will perform at the Moshi Club on Friday, February 24, 2023, while Mario will take to the same stage on Sunday, February 26, 2023, after the Kili Marathon.
She called on Moshi residents and visitors to turn up in numbers to what is going to be a Kili Marathon concert to remember.
There will also be exceptional entertainment at the Moshi Cooperatives University Stadium where the marathon will take place.
“The entertainment here will start immediately after the official Kili Marathon program is over so that the entire stadium can then focus on the entertainment that Kilimanjaro Premium Lager has lined up for them,” she said.
Artists who will perform at the MoCU stadium, according to Pamela include, Billinas, Lordeyes, Conboi, Saraphina, and Machalii Watundu from Arusha.
Meanwhile, organizers of the Kilimanjaro International Marathon have reminded participants that the last number and kit collection point will be Moshi on Thursday, February 23(12noon to 5 pm), Friday February 24 (10 am to 6 pm) and Saturday, February 25 (from 9 am to 5 pm) at the Moshi Cooperatives University (MoCU) Stadium. The organizers called on the participants to observe the announced times to avoid inconveniences and also called on those collecting numbers for their friends or relatives to ensure they have copies of their identity cards or consent letters allowing the representatives to collect on their behalf. “We hope that the participants will turn up in numbers at this collection point as no numbers will be issued on the race day,” said the organizers adding that those who did not collect their numbers in Dar es Salaam and Arusha can still do so in Moshi on the mentioned dates.
This year’s sponsors include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42km (Main Sponsor), Tigo- 21km Half Marathon, Grand Malt – 5Km Fun Run, water table sponsors TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, Kilimanjaro Water, Total Energies and official suppliers Surveyed Plots Company Limited (SPC) Kibo Palace Hotel, CMC Automobiles, KK Security and Keys Hotel.
Kili Marathon is organized by the Kilimanjaro Marathon Company Limited and nationally coordinated by Executive Solutions Limited.