IN an effort to promote golf in the continent, the Africa Golf Confederation (AGC) has launched the first-ever continental calendar. According to Johnson Omolo, the AGC President, the year’s event will see Uganda Golf Union (UGU), under the auspices of the Africa Golf Confederation, hosting the All-Africa Junior team Championship in April 2023. Omolo was quoted as saying for the first time Uganda will be hosting the continental junior event at the Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort in Kampala. The top two boys’ teams and the winner in the girl’s category will qualify for the Toyota World Junior Championship to be held in Japan in June 2023. “We have also included affiliate national amateur championships from Namibia, Zambia, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Uganda, Ghana and Egypt,” said Omolo. He noted that these events will be open for all amateur golfers in Africa and will contribute towards the World Amateur Golf Ranking. According to AGC, Ethiopia will host Africa Region 4 in Addis Ababa in June 2023 and seven countries are expected to participate in this event. Tanzania is among the region 4 members and will be out searching for their first international glory since 2002. Region 4 is under the former Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) chairman, Chris Martin who was elected as Region Director in September last year and will oversee his first event. Eswatini will host the Region 5 Golf Championship in Quarter Two and Cote d’Ivoire will host the Regions 2 and 3 Championships in Quarter Three. “To ensure the growth of regional events, financing will be a key component and we will continue exploring options for private sector and public sector support to ensure the sustainability of these events,” said the AGC president. He added together with his team looks forward to a stronger and better AGC with the partner’s support. Omolo cited area of focus for 2023 shall be to host regional tournaments in the four regions of the African continent and coordinate national championships through a continental golf calendar to attract foreign participation. He also said they plan to establish an office in a central location (Kenya) on the continent and improve technical capacity on the continent through working closely with the World Golf Governing Body Royal and Ancient Golf Club (R&A) of Scotland to ensure have more training and certification on the rules of golf in the disadvantaged regions of the continent who may not have received such before.