TANZANIA Sports Writers Association (TASWA) has come up with strategic plans to enhance its efficiency  shortly after the general election that picked new leaders of the various posts. In the elections held at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on February 5th this  year, Amir Mhando was elected the association’s chairman while Alfred Lucas won the Secretary General’s post. In its recent party’s Executive Committee meeting held on February 12th   under the chairman, Taswa laid down the strategies to revive and give the association new vigor. According to a statement released by the association’s General Secretary Alfred Lucas, the association formed various committees to implement its plans and strategies in a bid to revive the sportswriters’ body. The committees formed are Media Training Committee, constitutional committee, auditing committee, Awards Committee, Financial Committee, Media Day Bonanza Committee, and the committee to empower women journalists. In Media Training Committee, Taswa has appointed Egbert Mkoko who is a lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam as its chairman. The committee will be tasked to prepare training in and outside Dar es Salaam for experienced and young sports journalists. Mkoko will work alongside Imani Makongoro as his secretary and Dominick Nkolimwa will be the committee’s deputy chairman. Nkolimwa is a lecturer at the Institute of Social Work in Dar es Salaam. As for Constitutional Committee, Lucas said it will be tasked with the duty to make amendments and reforms to the current constitution to meet the current demand. Lucas said that the committee will be chaired by  Boniface Wambura, who once was the Taswa’s chairman, and is also a lawyer by profession. Wambura will work alongside Abdul Mohamedi who once served as the association’s General Secretary. The auditing committee will be chaired by CPA Baraka Katemba who is COSOTA’s Financial Manager and Charles Mtekateka from Tanzania Standard Newpapers’(TSN) financial department, who will work alongside him. Taswa Executive Committee has decided to retain its Award Committee which will be tasked to prepare awards for the best athletes in all sports. The Committee will be formed by various reknowned pundits. CPA Shijja Richard who is Taswa member and currently working with Tanzania Revenue Authority(TRA)  has been appointed as the association’s  Financial Committee chairman working alongside Dinah Ismail, Ramadhani Mbwaduke, Enock Bwigane as the committee members. Other committees, according to Lucas stamen, are the Media Day Bonanza Committee and Women Journalists empowerment committee.