THE Tanzania Professional Boxing Commission (TPBC) has condemned pugilist Selemani Kidunda for his failure to attend weigh-in and face-off exercises ahead of his fight against Patrick Makala today. The two boxers are scheduled to settle their differences in the fight for the African Boxing Union (ABU) Super Middleweight title at Ubungo Plaza in Dar es Salaam tonight. Another big fight set to attract the attention of many boxing fans brings together Tony Rashid against Sabelo Ngabenyana who compete for the ABU Super Bantamweight. These two main bouts will be staged after nine opening under card fights involving upcoming pugilists drawn from different corners of the country. However, in a surprising circumstance, Kidunda was nowhere to be seen when he was called to publicly attend the weigh-in and face-off tasks which were held at Las Vegas ground at Mabibo in the city yesterday. In his reaction, TPBC General Secretary Yahya Poli, who was overseeing the exercise, said it was not pleasing to see him (Kidunda) failing to accomplish the task as it is a requirement by boxing regulations. “We do not have any official communication from him or his management on why he has failed to turn, I do not know what happens next but this exercise has now officially closed,” he said. However, Kidunda’s opponent Makala, who hails from DR Congo weighed 75kgs and insisted that he has come to defeat the former in order to return home with the title. On his part, Rashid who is trying to defend the ABU Super Bantam title against the South African boxer, said he is well prepared to defend his belt. “I respect him (Ngabenyana) because he is a good fighter but, I have trained well and I am ready to show him my abilities in the ring,” he said. In response, Ngabenyana simply said he has nothing much to say only that his strong punches will speak for him in the ring. Boxing is becoming among the most loved sports in the country after football and without doubt, many Tanzanians are set to endure a long night to experience the whole action as it unfolds.