THE government has vowed to curb examination malpractices in the country by taking serious measures including imposing stiff penalties to offender(s). Minister for Education, Science and Technology Prof Adolf Mkenda noted that, adding that the government is currently reviewing the National Examination Council of Tanzania Act to ensure that all those engaged in the illegal act are severely punished. “We want to bring to an end examination cheating; we are determined to ensure the malpractices are contained and offenders are punished as required because the acts jeoperdise the country’s education,” he said. Elaborating, he said the government has put in place a strong system which has made it possible to tame examination malpractices. Speaking to journalists here yesterday, Prof Mkenda said days are numbered for all those who engage in examination malpractices, because the government will never tolerate any one who tampers with the country’s education. Prof Mkenda, further directed the National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA) to continue controlling cheating in examination and take appropriate actions against any school which will be found to have engaged in the illegal acts. The minister’s directives follow complaints by some parents of 337 students whose 2022 National Secondary Education Examination results were nullified for misconduct including cheating. The Minister said the investigations made it clear that the students whose results were nullified or suspended were involved in cheating as the patterns especially in multiple choices were similarly unusual. The suspects, including police, teachers, invigilators and students, school administrators have appeared before the legal entity as investigations are proceeding. “We have reported the cases to their relevant appointment authorities and professional board for further action,” the minister insisted. He cautioned school principals and owners not to indulge in such fraud as the ministry will soon announce action taken against the schools involved in examination misconduct as the penalty including revoking their registrations. Prof Mkenda noted that by allowing cheating in examinations, it means preparing a nation that will fail to attain its objectives because we will be producing a workforce which has not followed proper channels in their studies. He said that the examinations  have been well planned  and conducted except for  few schools  which decide to engage in cheating  stressing that  the government will not tolerate  such acts. “Whoever cheats in the exams will be arrested; teachers should refrain from engaging in cheating and help the government to ensure that exams are conducted as per required regulations. He added that, “currently there are cases ongoing involving those who were accused of exam leakages and I promise that when their sentences are handed down by the court, we will make their names public as efforts to discourage such acts. In Form Four Examination results announced recently NECTA suspended three examination centres that were proven to have cheated in the CSEE 2022 examination. The centres are Andrew Faza Memorial School and Cornelius School in Dar es Salaam, as well as Mnemonic Academy of Urban West in Zanzibar. In last year’s Standard Seven Examination results of  2,192  pupils  were revoked for allegedly cheating.  But, the government gave them a second chance to demonstrate their ability after the National Examinations Council (NEC) granted them an opportunity to re-sit for exams.