ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has outlined various measures being undertaken by the government to strengthen tourism sector and attain its target of increasing the number of visitors to 850,000 come 2025. According to the president, the government has already started strengthening infrastructures including expansion of roads and improvement of Abeid Amani Karume International Airport (AAKIA) among others. “The airport is currently providing services at international standards under the global air and travel services provider to meet the visitors’ needs,”  Dr Mwinyi said at the  opening of  the Tourism Business to Business Summit’ dubbed  “Z-Summit Zanzibar 2023″ held here yesterday. Dr Mwinyi on the other hand, said that the construction of Pemba Airport is expected to open up tourism opportunities in the island, adding: “These are among the government’s efforts to promote the growth of the sector in the country.” He said Zanzibar itself with enticing old buildings including the Stone Town which is the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) World Heritage Centre, preserves its history and is a hub for many visitors from various nations. Hence, he said its doors are open to investors from around the globe to come and invest in various sectors in Zanzibar. Commenting on Blue Economy Policy Dr Mwinyi said his government has taken steps to implement the policy and put emphasis on its sustainability through its Tourism for All concept. He said that the tourism industry is crucial to Zanzibar’s blue and green economies, and it has a unique chance to appeal to the 81 per cent of global travellers who prefer sustainable destinations. “This summit aims to showcase the abundance of new opportunities that Zanzibar has to offer in its quest to become the top island destination in the world,” he pointed out. Elaborating, he noted that the going green campaign is both a global responsibility and a lucrative market opportunity, in line with the government’s “Tourism for All” concept, adding: “we aim to ensure that tourism revenues are distributed equitably throughout the value chain, benefitting the community and the environment while preserving our heritage.” Dr Mwinyi equally said that by embracing sustainability in tourism, the isles can secure a brighter future while offering the visitors a unique and authentic experience. In his speech, the Head of State said  that tourism significantly contributes to Zanzibar’s economy, accounting for nearly 30 per cent of its GDP, and that his government is committed to meeting market demands and matching supply to host 850,000 tourists by 2025. In the course, he informed the audience at the Z-Summit that Zanzibar has experienced a gradual and positive increase in room numbers, with an average of 2,000 rooms per year since 2019, and the opening of new international branded hotels and resorts in both Unguja and Pemba, adding: “As a result, we are gradually meeting the demand and offering a unique international experience to our tourists without losing our authentic Zanzibari identity.” He further said: As we attract more tourists and investments, we must remain conscious of the environmental impact on our limited island resources and that is why I implore all tourism businesses to embrace sustainable business practices and uphold the recently launched Zanzibar Sustainable Tourism Declaration.” He mentioned that tourism industry globally has contributed significantly to pollution, biodiversity loss, and climate change, leading to the degradation and destruction of local ecosystems, greenhouse gas emissions, and pollution of land, air, and water, “So, let us join hands and commit to sustainable practices to ensure that Zanzibar’s beauty remains for generations.” In a related development, Dr Mwinyi commended the Zanzibar Association for Tourism Investors (ZATI) and Kili Fair for organising the significant summit for Zanzibar. He also thanked the private sector and other tourism stakeholders for collaborating with the government to promote the islands. “Through these joint efforts, we have achieved a prominent standing as a top destination in Africa,” he said. Commenting, Mr Simai Mohamed Said- Minister for Tourism and Heritage declared at the opening of the meeting that the phrase ‘Low tourism season,’ is no longer required as Zanzibar moves to have tourism in all seasons. For years, Zanzibar’s low season was around February/May when heavy rains are expected. “We must work together to promote sustainable tourism and ensure that the sector’s economic benefits are shared by all while preserving the islands’ natural and cultural heritage for generations to come,” he said.