YOUNG  Africans coach Nasreddine Nabi described the game against KMC as the worst at the helm of the club while KMC’s trainer Thierry Hitimana bemoaned lack of creativity among his charges. Yanga, who carved a slim 1-0 win at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, have managed to establish an 8-point lead at the summit of the Premier League table with 62 points from a 23-match onslaught. However, despite securing an important win, Nabi fumed with the level of performance by some of his players who are not featured regularly in the team saying their standards are not improving to convince him. “We have won the match but I am not happy with the way some of the players played…they are not giving it all for the team to register success and if you sideline them, they complain. “I can say this is the worst game I have witnessed ever since I arrived at this club,” Nabi said during a post-match briefing. He added: “There are some players who have been at the club for two years but their standards of play are the same…they are psychologically satisfied with the same rhythm without trying to shift to top gear. “When will they be dependable players if they continue behaving like that, they do not have that fighting spirit to help their club claim tangible results when given playing time,” Nabi lamented. It was the tenth straight victory for Yanga after suffering a 2-1 loss to Ihefu at Highland Estates Stadium which eventually dashed their 49-unbeaten run record. On his part, Hitimana for KMC rued lack of creativity by his players when in the final third of their opponents saying they were easily losing ball possession. “Despite the fact that we faced a good team, we were not accurate enough and we were frequently losing ball possession a thing which resulted in us not dominating the game as we wanted,” he said. The outcome was disappointing for the Kinondoni-based club that continues to stumble in the ongoing  campaign as they have accumulated 23 points from 23 matches equivalent to a point per game. “We really wanted to get all three points from today’s match but things have not gone according to our plans, there are still more fixtures coming up which we must target to stamp convincing results,” Hitimana said.