THE Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) in Mtwara District has outlined its initiatives to increase water accessibility in the district. Speaking here over the weekend, RUWASA District Manager, Engineer Hamisi Mashindike said the initiatives are intended to ensure that the district attains the goal of having 85 per cent water accessibility by 2025. “We have come up with a number of initiatives to increase water availability in the District towards attaining the set national goal of having 85 per cent of people in the rural area supplied with clean and safe water by 2025,” he said. Eng Mashindike mentioned construction of a large water project at Kitere Ward which will serve over 10,000 households in the villages located in the ward. Eng Mashindike said the agency has already taken various steps to implement the project. He said the agency has already designed the project which is set to be implemented in the 2023/2024 financial year. Meanwhile Eng Mashindike said the agency is currently implementing other water projects worth 5.06bn/- to serve 32,717 people in the district. “The projects are underway and upon completion they will serve over 30,000 households in the district,” he said. He said some of the projects have so far been completed by 98 per cent and started providing water services to the people. On the other hand, Eng Mashindike said the agency has also completed the construction of 1.6bn/- water projects at Changarawe and Nalingu Villages in the district. The water projects according to Engineer Mashindike provide water access to 15,338 residents in the area. He said currently the district provides clean and safe Water to 85 per cent of the people in Mtwara rural. The government has set priorities in water projects to ensure provision of sustainable services and environmental cleanliness to all the citizens. The sector is also among the priority areas in the strategy for industrial economic growth and in the fight against poverty in the country.