YOUNG Africans said they aim to do well in their opening group D CAF Confederation Cup match versus US Monastir at Stade Olympique Stadium in Tunis, Tunisia on Sunday. A squad of 25 players departed yesterday afternoon en route to the battlefield with high expectations to stamp success at the away venue and bag maximum points. Briefing media before the trip, the club’s Media and Communication Manager Ali Kamwe said the Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi was not among the travelling members as he already left the country with the advance team. “Our coach already travelled to Tunisia that is why he is not among the nine staff members departing today (yesterday). He is there to create a good environment for the team,” Kamwe said. He added the injured second-choice goalkeeper Abutwalib Mshery is among the 25 players who have made the trip saying he is not going there to play but rather to undergo surgery. “Doctors recommended that basing on the nature of his injury, he should seek further treatment in Tunisia hence the reason he is on the travelling list,” remarked him. He then insisted that their top priority is to do well at the away territory in order to create winning confidence in players ahead of other approaching confederation cup fixtures. “It should be remembered that at the same venue (Stade Olympique) is where we picked a worthy 1-0 win against Club Africain in the knockout phase of the competition. “Of course, in group stage matches, we value a lot of maximum points to be generated from home soil that is why we are fully prepared for our first home game against TP Mazembe on February 19th,” he said. He, therefore, disclosed they have started  to sell tickets for the TP Mazembe game with VIP A goes at 30,000/-, VIP B  at 20,000/-, VIP C at 10,000/- and  3,000 for ordinary seats. The full travelling list consists of Djigui Diarra, Metacha Mnata, Erick Johora, Ibrahim Bacca, Bakari Mwamnyeto, Dickson Job, Kibwana Shomari, Farid Mussa, Mudathir Yahya, Zawadi Mauya, Yanick Bangala and Jesus Moloko. Others are Clement Mzize, Joyce Lomalisa, Tuisila Kisinda, Salum Abubakar, David Bryson, Dickson Ambundo, Mamadou Doumbia, Khalid Aucho, Djuma Shabani, Fiston Mayele, Kennedy Musonda and Stephanie Aziz Ki.