OVER 7.2 tri/- has been earned through the sale of different minerals since the establishment of minerals markets three years ago, it has been learnt. This was revealed in Dar es Salaam recently by the Minister for Minerals, Dr Doto Biteko, during a meeting with stakeholders in the mining sector. The meeting aimed to discuss and get a common understanding on various matters as well as addressing challenges facing the sector. Dr Biteko further said the government’s decision to establish mineral trading hubs in the country’s mining centres has to the large extent helped to eliminate smuggling and tax evasion. The programme that was first trailed in Geita Region in March 2019, which is responsible for 40 per cent of the country’s gold exports, was later rolled out across the country. He said in the past three years, Tanzania established around 42 mining trading hubs in different regions and towns, a move which simplified buying and purchasing of all types of minerals. “Since the establishment of mineral markets, sellers and buyers have been easily conducting their business and since then, minerals worth around 7.2 tri/- have been traded. We hope this sector will continue to grow further and employ more people,” Minister Biteko said. “Apart from increasing trade, also the mining trading centres have helped bring to an end smuggling and theft as people now feel safe to take minerals to shortest distance possible and sell their minerals through official markets,” he said. Minister Biteko said the meeting, which was organised by Tanzanian National Business Council (TNBC) will, among other things, discuss challenges facing the sector and ways of addressing them with the aim of having robust mining activities in the country. At the same time, the minister noted that the government has recently revoked around 7,000 mining licences that had been issued to investors who failed to develop the mining sites as per requirement. He said the exercise will enable those with real interest of mining works to continue and contribute to economic growth. TNBC’s chairperson Dr Godwin Wanga on his side, hailed the government’s initiative of addressing challenges emerging in the mining sector which is now contributing about 9.7 per cent in the Gross National Income (GNI). Dr Wanga said some of challenges raised by the miners in the country, included antagonism between small scale miners and large-scale miners, failure to understand rules and regulation and tax regimes.