THE Vice-President Philip Mpango has challenged the African Court on Human and People’s Rights (AfCHPR) to address glitches that would derail its mission on the continent. Dr Mpango urged the continental judicial organ to iron out some of the contemptuous issues in its mandate, which he said were forcing some member states to pull out. “It has been a concern to some member states that the court is encroaching on their sovereignty by operating as an Appellate court to abdicate issues that aren’t within its jurisdiction,” the VP observed, shortly before AfCHPR’s 2023 judicial year here yesterday. Dr Mpango further claimed that it was also a concern of some member states that some judgments and orders of the court were not having due regard of the African context, as result many of them still remain unimplemented. Worse still, according to the Vice-President, some member states have withdrawn their declarations and others were hesitant to make and deposit theirs. “To address such glitches, it is my view that it is imperative for the court to abide to its mandate and respect the sovereignty of member states, while appreciating the diversity of legal processes on the continent,” he urged. In the same vein, the Vice-President encouraged AfCHPR President Lady Justice Imani Aboud to continue engaging member states to discuss the challenges that address the implementation of the court’s mandate. On the positive note though, Dr Mpango reminded the more than 200 key human rights stakeholders who converged at AfCHPR’s Kibo Hall that Tanzania remains committed to the mandate and objectives of the African Union (AU) and the implementation of Agenda 2063. Dr Mpango insisted that Tanzania was honoured to host AfCHPR as the gesture, was among other factors, a reflection of Tanzania’s solemn commitment to adhere to the basic principles of equality, justice, respect for human rights and dignity. “President Samia Suluhu Hassan attaches great importance to the work of the court and commends the achievements made so far in pursuit of Africa of good governance, democracy, respect for Human Rights, justice and the rule of law as articulated by aspiration three of Agenda 2063, the Africa We Want,” he revealed. Dr Mpango reiterated that Tanzania was committed to build strong African institutions including the African Court. In recognition of Tanzania’s role in promoting Human Rights and as members of the International community, Dr Mpango noted that the country had also subjected herself to the jurisdiction of East African Court of Justice (EACJ) and the AfCHPR, as well as signed, ratified and domesticated a number of international human rights treaties. Speaking earlier on, AfCHPR President Lady Justice Imani Aboud said given the intrinsic relationship between Human Rights, Integration, Peace and development, the role of the judiciary, in particular AfCHPR was extremely important. “History teaches us that an independent judiciary is indispensable for the socioeconomic development of any community,” she explained. Lady Justice Aboud insisted that mission of the Arusha based court was to enhance, through judicial decisions the protective mandate of the African Commission by strengthening Human Rights protection system in Africa. Since its inception, some 16 years ago, AfCHPR has rendered over 200 decisions. These decisions, according to Lady Justice Aboud deal with a wide range of sensitive socio, economic and political issues that characterise the day to day lives of ordinary Africans.  