ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi on Thursday officiated at the laying of the foundation stone for the construction of Tanzania Atomic Energy Commission (TAEC) offices at Dunga Village in Unguja Central District, expressing his pleasure with the new plan for Zanzibar. He said the new infrastructure that include laboratories will enable Zanzibar to promote safe use of radiation, research findings and innovation along with other use of nuclear science and technology for development. “I thank the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and the TAEC for the efforts in ensuring that nuclear technology is used productively in support of various economic and social development without affecting the health of Tanzanians, as well as keeping the environment clean,” he said in his speech. Dr Mwinyi also commended the Isles Ministry of Health for close cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology as well as the TAEC in ensuring that the project is fully implemented. “We have already seen the positive impact of TAEC on our development. For example, the use of nuclear technology has helped the eradication of some pests and diseases that were affecting our health and that of livestock, especially cattle in Zanzibar,” said the president. The atomic science has also helped researchers in the commission to come-up with a new breed of rice named “SUPA BC”, which is resistant to drought and diseases, enabling farmers to harvest seven tonnes, instead of four tonnes of rice per hectare they were recording previously. “In addition, the time to harvest from planting has decreased to 120 days from the previous 150 days. This is indeed a great achievement to be proud of,” said the president. He commended the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and other development partners for various support they provide in strengthening the infrastructure, equipment and expertise needed in research, creativity, control and safe use of radiation and nuclear technology. Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology Mr Omar Kipanga, said the commission was established under parliamentary law No 7 of 2003 with the aim of managing, controlling and encouraging the safe use of radiation and nuclear technology in the country. He thanked the government, under President Samia Suluhu Hassan, for providing funds for the construction of the TAEC office and laboratories in the Isles, while also praising Dr Mwinyi for providing land for the project. Zanzibar Minister of Health Nassor Ahmed Mazrui said his ministry is a major stakeholder in atomic energy as many health projects and services require use of radiation. He insisted that the ministry will maintain close cooperation with TAEC. Earlier at the event, Director General of TAEC Prof Lazaro Busagala said the implementation of the project, which it is expected to cost more than 3bn/-, is progressing well.