YOUNG Africans have confirmed that winger Bernard Morrison is set to be out of action for two months as he nurses ‘athletic pubalgia’. The confirmation was made recently in Dar es Salaam by the team’s Doctor Moses Etutu who narrated that appropriate treatment has already started to be administered to the player. Athletic pubalgia or sports hernia happens when the deep layers of the abdominal wall or the tendons that attach muscles to your pelvis weaken or tear. The following situations can cause or contribute to a sports hernia. The injury now bars Morrison from engaging in forceful and repetitive hip movements, like twisting, kicking, jumping, and cutting or slicing. “He is expected to be sidelined for two months and the good news is that so far, he is improving as he continues to receive necessary treatment,” Etutu said. In the same token, Etutu disclosed that second-choice goalkeeper Abutwalib Mshery is also under a long-term injury slated to keep him off the pitch for two to three months. According to him, Mshery is being troubled by a ‘meniscus grade 2 tear’ hence it is going to consume a long period for him to fully recover before resuming his shot-stopping responsibilities. Etutu also revealed that efforts are underway to send Mshery to Tunisia for further treatment of his injury. Already, the management of the club sorted out the second-choice goalkeeping woes by re-uniting with their former shot-stopper Metacha Mnata who signed a deal until the end of the season. However, Yanga’s goalkeeping section is in the safe hands of Djigui Diarra who is among the best-performing goalies in the Premier League and he is doing the plausible task with the team. The Malian goalie recently extended his stay at the club for two years meaning that he is still glued to work for his current team while trying to defend his last season’s Best Goalkeeper Award. Up next, the Jangwani-based club travel to Tunisia to interface US Monastir in their first leg match of CAF Confederation Cup (CAF CC) group stage this weekend. To reach this stage, Yanga ousted Club Africain also from Tunisia 1-0 which was enough to drive them to the last 16 of the contest.