REAL Madrid Head Coach Carlo Ancelotti is pleased with sports infrastructure in Morocco, hailing the Cherifian Kingdom for proper organsation of the 19th edition of the Club World Cup 2022. He was speaking after the completion of the Semifinal match between National Al Ahly of Egypt and Real Madrid for which the European Champions won 4-1. With the win, Real Madrid have set a record of making it to the finals of the Club World Cup for the fifth time. Their way to the finals was made possible through goals from Vinicius Jr, Federico Valverde, Rodrygo and Sergio Arribas. Al Ahly scored their consolation goal through a penalty taken by Ali Maaloul in the 61st minute, but Madrid had a chance to extend the lead via a VAR decision, but Luka Modric saw his spot-kick being saved. Although they played without several key starters like forward Karim Benzema and goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois, Real Madrid experienced a home field environment, with the 45,508 fans continuing to cheer at the Prince Moulay Abdallah Stadium in Rabat. Through the match, Al Ahly of Egypt played their hearts out, however their strikers lacked clinical edge. “Morocco opened its doors to us and expressed all its love to us. The tournament is very well organised, the facilities are perfect, the pitch is good and the weather is pleasant”, said Ancelotti. The comments by a world class Italian top technician intensify Morocco’s bid to host the Africa Cup of Nations AFCON in 2025 and the World Cup finals of 2026. On Monday, the FIFA President Gianni Infantino, commended Morocco for its tremendous achievements in football, saying these are results of commitment and heavy investments. He made the statement upon his arrival at Ibn Battuta International Airport in Tangier for the semi-finals and final of the FIFA Club World Cup. “Morocco is a wonderful football country that achieved tremendous success in the last World Cup held in Qatar”, Infantino said. He added that this edition of the Club World Cup, which Morocco is hosting for the third time, has brought together great clubs and aroused the enthusiasm and interest of fans and football lovers around the world. “Following the success of the World Cup in Qatar, the Club World Cup takes on a very special and distinct dimension at the global level,” said Infantino. Adding; “FIFA has given Morocco full confidence in the organization of the Club World Cup”.