THE Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) has begun the final process to compensate 255 people set to vacate their land and pave the way for construction of a 35-km long gas pipeline from Ntorya to Madimba Gas Processing Plant in Mtwara. TPDC Administrative Manager, Mr Linus Kinyondo said the corporation has already set aside 437m/- ready to settle the compensation to the eligible persons. “We have come to finalise the process to settle the compensation for people listed to vacate their land to pave the way for construction of the gas pipeline from Ntorya to Madimba Gas Processing Plant,” he said. Mr Kinyondo said the process to settle the payment would involve provision of education to beneficiaries on how to manage finances as well as opening accounts in which TPDC will deposit the payment for compensation. The state corporation will also sign compensation contracts with the beneficiaries before depositing the payment in their new bank accounts to be opened. “Before depositing the money in their bank accounts, we will read for them all that is written in compensation contracts including the amount of the compensation to be paid to each beneficiary,” said Mr Kinyondo. He said after depositing the compensation in all the bank accounts of each beneficiary, all the 255 will be required to vacate the compensated land ready to start construction of the gas pipeline. Mtwara District Commissioner Hanafi Msabaha said the land acquired by TPDC from each person varies between 20 metres and below. He thanked the government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan for providing the money and on time to compensate the ‘wananchi’ to vacate their land for paving the way for construction of the pipeline gas he described as crucial towards energy production in Mtwara and the country at large. Mr Msabaha urged those listed for compensation to cooperate with compensation specialists involved in the process of settling the payment. The construction of the gas pipeline from Ntorya Gas field to Madimba Gas Processing Plant involves land passing through five wards and eleven villages in Mtwara District Council.