AS former President Jakaya Kikwete assumed the role of chairmanship of the Africa Food Prize (AFP) recently, nomination for 2023 award has been opened to May 16th this year. The Africa Food Prize is the preeminent award recognising the extraordinary women, men, and institutions whose contributions to African agriculture are forging a new era of sustainable food security and economic opportunity that elevates all Africans. A press statement released by AFP recently, revealed that Dr Kikwete’s appointment coincides with the 2023 call for nomination of the prestigious prize of 100,000 US dollars (equivalent to over 200m/-). The nomination criteria indicates that the award can be granted to any individual or identifiable group of individuals, as well as to established institutions, associations, organisations or government bodies with a formal and recognised judicial and organisational structure contributing to the overall objectives of the Prize. “Any qualified candidate, irrespective of nationality, profession or location, whose work, and contributions deriving from the work, has had a clear impact on the African situation, nationally, regionally or for the continent. “Similarly, the prize can be awarded with reference to a specific contribution or achievement, or a series of efforts and results in the recent past, preferably within the last few years,” stated the Criteria noting that the winner will be unveiled at the AGRF Summit in Tanzania, this September. According to the statement, Dr Kikwete succeeded former Nigerian President, Olusegun Obasanjo, who served as the AFP Chair since 2016. In his address, the immediate former Chair expressed enthusiasm noting that through his work Dr Kikwete has shown a genuine passion and dedication towards transforming Africa’s agriculture. “I congratulate Dr Kikwete on his appointment as Chair of the Africa Food Prize. Through his leadership, I am confident that the continent will continue to explore and implement food systems strategies that lift people from poverty through inclusive growth and sustainable development,” said retired President Obasanjo. Dr Kikwete has a commendable track record as a leading contributor to the transformation of Africa’s food systems. During his tenure, he led the implementation of ‘Kilimo Kwanza’ (Swahili for Agriculture First), an initiative that unlocked productivity and profitability for the country’s smallholder farmers. He also spearheaded the implementation of the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT), a public-private partnership aimed at unlocking more private sector investment in the country’s agricultural sector. Upon his retirement, and through the Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete Foundation, H.E. Kikwete has been collaborating with farmers and researchers to develop initiatives and strategic interventions to increase yield and productivity in smallholder farming and agribusiness. On his part, the Chief Executive Officer of Zone Asia, Oceania and Africa, Nestlé S.A, Mr Remy Ejel indicated that in this year, Nestlé partnered with the AFP, contributing CHF 100,000 (equivalent to US$ 108,400) which will go to the main award, and a special category focusing on innovations that advance regenerative food systems. “We are excited to see how this year’s applicants for the AFP are making a difference. Their research and innovation efforts will help drive the transformation of agriculture on the African continent, and we are proud to support this,” he said. The Prize has brought much deserved recognition to 18 recipients from Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda and Zimbabwe whose outstanding achievements point the way forward to a more vibrant farming sector for the entire continent by making African farms more productive, profitable and resilient.