The organizers of Kilimanjaro Premium Lager International Marathon 2023 have announced the race number and running vest collection schedule which starts this coming weekend in Dar es Salaam. This comes after they recently announced closure of the registration exercise last week as the entries capacity had been reached for the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager 42 Km and Tigo 21 Km races even before the February 6, 2023 deadline that had been set by the organizers. According to the statement, the number collection will take place on Saturday February 18 and Sunday February 19 at the Mlimani City Mall from 12 noon to 6pm. After Dar es Salaam, the exercise will move to Arusha on Tuesday February 21 and Wednesday February 22 from 2pmto 7 pm at the Kibo Palace Hotel. The last collection point will be Moshi on Thursday February 23(12noon to 5pm), Friday February 24 (10am to 6pm) and Saturday February 25 (from 9am to 5pm) at the Moshi Cooperatives University (MoCU) Stadium. The organizers called on the participants to observe the announced times to avoid inconveniences and also called on those collecting numbers for their friends or relatives to ensure they have copies of their identity cards or consent letters allowing the representatives to collect on their behalf. “It is our hope that the participants will turn up in numbers at the collection points in Dar es Salaam and Arusha in order to reduce congestion in Moshi,” said the organizers. The organizers also issued stern warning against those selling numbers online illegally saying that legal action will be taken against them. “This is illegal and we take legal action against them,” said the organizers. Also targeted are those intending to run with fake numbers as they will be withdrawn from the races, their results nullified and banned from participating in Kilimanjaro International Marathon. This year’s sponsors include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42km (Main Sponsor), Tigo- 21km Half Marathon, Grand Malt – 5Km Fun Run, water table sponsors TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, Kilimanjaro Water, TotalEnergies and official suppliers Kibo Palace Hotel, CMC Automobiles, KK Security and Keys Hotel. Kili Marathon is organised by the Kilimanjaro Marathon Company Limited and nationally coordinated by Executive Solutions Limited.