PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has made major realignment of various government leaders, including Minister, Deputy Ministers, Permanent and Deputy Permanent Secretaries in her continued move to restructure and strengthen the government. In the shakeup, President Samia has appointed one minister, one deputy minister while re-allocating other deputy ministers, nine Permanent Secretaries (PSs) and 11 Deputy Permanent Secretaries. The president has also appointed two new Regional Commissioners (RCs) and Mr Ramadhani Kailima as the Director of Election at the National Electoral Commission (NEC). A statement released yesterday by the Chief Secretary (CS), Dr Moses Kusiluka indicated that five Deputy Ministers, five Permanent Secretaries, two Deputy Permanent Secretaries and one RC have been transferred from their earlier portfolios and work stations. “In the re-alignment, President Samia has transferred activities pertaining to investment in the President’s Office. “In line with this, the post of Permanent Secretary (Fisheries) has been invalidated and instead, the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries will have a single PS and two deputy PSs,” said Dr Kusiluka in a statement. According to the statement, the former Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Mr Abdallah Ulega has been promoted to serve as the full minister in the docket and earlier appointment of the immediate former Minister Mashimba Ndaki has been revoked. Similarly, Mr Hamis Mwinjuma takes the position of Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports replacing Ms Pauline Gekul, who assumes the roles of Deputy Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Mr Geoffrey Pinda has been transferred from the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs to Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development to replace Mr Ridhiwani Kikwete, who has been shifted to President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance. Mr Deogratius Ndejembi assumes the role of Deputy Minister for Regional Administration and Local Governments (PO-RALG) from the President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance and Mr David Silinde has been transferred from PO-RALG to Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries. The appointed PSs include Dr Tausi Kida (the President’s Office-Investment), Mr Juma Mkomi (President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance), and Ambassador Samwel Shelukindo (Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation). Others are Prof Carolyne Nombo (Education, Science and Technology), Mr Gerald Mweli (Agriculture), Dr Seif Shekalaghe (Health), Engineer Nadhifa Kemikimba (Water), Mr Kheri Mahimbali (Minerals) and Mr Mohamed Abdulla Khamis (Information, Communication and Information Technology). As for deputy PSs, the list includes Dr Wilson Mahera Charles (President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government PO-RALG (Health). Prior to the appointment, he was NEC Director of Election. She also appointed Mr Sospeter Mtwale as deputy PS in PO-RALG. Prior to his appointment, he was a Senior Officer at the State House. Also, Dr Franklin Rwezimula has been appointed deputy PS in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. Prior to his appointment, he was the Manager for the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) in the Central Zone. Dr Hussein Mohamed Omar is the new deputy PS (Agriculture). Earlier he was a senior officer in the Vice-President’s Office, while Engineer Cyprian John Luhemeja is the new deputy PS (Water). He was the Chief Executive Officer at Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA). The rest are Ms Lucy Kabyemera, who becomes the deputy PS in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development. She had been serving in the capacity of Director in the same ministry. Mr Anderson Mutatembwa is new deputy PS (Natural Resources and Tourism) having been promoted from being a senior officer at the State House, while Mr Athuman Mbuttuka is deputy PS (Energy). Prior to his appointment, he was the Chief Internal Auditor. Others are Dr Daniel Mushi (Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries-Livestock) prior to his appointment he was the Registrar at the Meat Board, Ms Agnes Meena (Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries-Fisheries), who before appointment she was a Director at PO-RALG. Mr Selestine Kakele is the new deputy PS  (Information, Communication and Information Technology), promoted from being a senior officer at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation. On the other hand, the appointed RCs include Ms Christina Mndeme (Shinyanga). She has taken over from Ms Sophia Mjema, who was recently appointed CCM Secretary of Ideology and Publicity. Dr Francis Kasabubu is the new Songwe Regional Commissioner. His previous role was PS at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. Mr Wazir Kindamba is now the Tanga RC from his previous station of Songwe, whereby he will be taking over from Mr Omary Mgumba whose appointment has been revoked. The list also comprises of government executives transferred from their previous roles including Permanent Secretaries who are Prof Riziki Shemdoe from PO-RALG to Livestock and Fisheries, Dr John Jingu from the Prime Minister’s Office -Policy, Parliament and Coordination to Community Development, Gender, Women and Special groups and Dr Jim Yonazi from Information, Communication and Information Technology to Policy, Parliament and Coordination. Also, Mr Adolf Ndunguru from Mineral Ministry to PO-RALG and Engineer Anthony Sanga from Water Ministry to Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development. The President also transferred the following Deputy PSs including Dr Grace Maghembe from PO-RALG to the Ministry of Health, Mr Nicholas Merion from Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development to the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports.