CRDB Bank has signed an agreement with the Information and Communication Technologies Commission (ICTC) and the National Science and Technology Commission (Costech) to support women and youth start-ups. CRDB CEO and Managing Director, Abdulmajid Nsekela, said the agreement signed yesterday would broaden its support to the start-ups through its ‘IMBEJU’ programme and enable it to reach its goals of empowering many women and youth economically. “We are proud of this important milestone….We have realised it’s better to integrate the programme with like-minded partners such as ICTC and Costech to drive the goal home,” Mr Nsekela said. Costech was established in 1986 as the successor to the Tanzania National Scientific Research Council (UTAFITI) as a state-owned entity with the responsibility of coordinating and promoting research and technology development activities in the country. Costech Director General Dr Amos Nungu said the agreement with one of the largest lenders in the country would align IMBEJU with the institution’s programmes that stimulate business innovation such as MAKISATU, which is set to inspire start-ups across the country. Meanwhile, the lender used the platform to introduce to the public the establishment of the “CRDB Bank Foundation” responsible for establishing and implementing innovative, sustainable, and participatory programmes aimed at bringing about social welfare, and the economy as ‘IMBEJU’. The bank announced the first CEO of the Foundation as Tully Esther Mwambapa who doubles as the CRDB Director of Corporate Affairs and Public Relations. Speaking for the first time as the CEO of the Foundation, Ms Mwambapa challenged young creative people to take advantage offered by IMBEJU programme in collaboration with ICTC, and Costech. “The agreement we signed (yesterday) gives us the power to collaborate with ICTC and Costech in verifying and identifying innovative start-ups and offer the required support,” Ms Mwambapa said. CRDB Foundation also plans to organise a special seminar next month to reach out the start-ups.