CONSTRUCTION of Kidunda dam in Morogoro is set to begin soon after the government compensated people who will have to relocate to pave the way for the project The project, expected to cost 346bn/-, is done by the government through Dar es Salaam Water and Sanitation Authority (DAWASA). It is expected to be completed by 2026. Speaking during the meeting with Morogoro Regional Commissioner, Fatma Mwassa, DAWASA Chief Executive Officer Engineer Cyprian Luhemeja, said the dam with a storage capacity of 190 million square meters would be a solution to water service challenge in Dar es Salaam and Coast regions. “We have come here to ask for cooperation from the regional administration in the management of this project, including protecting infrastructures that will be installed,” said Engineer Luhemeja He said that this strategic project needs the protection of its infrastructures to enable the project be completed within the timeframe. Earlier, the Morogoro Administrative Secretary, Dr Musa Ali Musa, thanked DAWASA for officially introducing the project to the Regional Security Committee, and urged the authority to protect water sources that will help the availability of sufficient water in the implementation of the project. “I would urge the DAWASA to cooperate with its stakeholders, including the Wami Ruvu Basin, in order to properly manage water sources for the people of Dar es Salaam and the Coast regions,” he said. He said Ruvu River serves more than 76 per cent of DAWASA’s customers, so without strengthening the management they will not achieve the expected goals. On her side, the RC Fatma Mwasa said she was pleased by the government’s move to label the Morogoro region as water bank, and source of electricity and food, something which will expedite development in the region. “We thank the sixth phase government under the leadership of the President, Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan for continuing to bring development in Morogoro region,” she said. “The work that is going on at the moment is for us to solve the challenges of livestock encroaching the water sources and to remove the invaders by using the existing laws and the implementing instructions of our leaders,” he said She said that the exercise to remove water source invaders will be sustainable and will help to ensure the protection of water sources which are beneficial for the development of the people and the nation as a whole. The Regional Commissioner asked DAWASA to set aside area and build a special office to enable security personnel like police and others to be stationed there during the construction period and even after completion of the project.