THE Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) has set an ambitious target of expanding its contribution to Tanzania’s economy from the current 40 per cent to 90 per cent in the next few years, as the authority accelerates the implementation of strategic port projects. That is equivalent to a 125 per cent leap. While it may sound a far-fetched dream, TPA Deputy General Director Eng Juma Kijavara says the target is achievable. His optimism is born out of ongoing massive strategic investments in port infrastructures, acquisition of modern equipment and robust marketing strategies. Over the last few years, the TPA, with massive support from the government, has put more efforts into developing the country’s sea and inland ports. With the ports industry playing a significant role in the country’s economic growth, substantial financial and human resources have considerably been channelled towards transforming the sector. Eng Kijavara says the multiple projects that are currently being implemented across the country are progressing well as the authority pushes for speedy execution of the projects, while mobilising resources for other mega projects which are under the pipeline. One of the flagship strategic projects is the Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Project (DMGP), which aims to overhaul the Dar es Salaam Port’s infrastructure. The first component of the project includes deepening and strengthening of existing berths 1 to 7 to 14.5 metres and the construction of a new multipurpose berth at Gerezani Creek. It also includes the deepening and widening of the entrance channel and turning basin in the port to the end of berth 11 to 15.5m; improving the rail linkages and platform in the port as well as deepening and strengthening of existing berths 8-11, to 14.5m. Another component is supporting the institutional strengthening of the TPA. The construction of a new yard has been completed, says Eng Kijavara, noting that currently, constructors are deepening and widening the entrance channel and turning basin. “The deepening of the entrance channel to 15m chart datum will enable us to handle larger ships that could not call at our port whose depth was between 10 to 12 meters,” he says. Tanzania’s second largest seaport of Tanga is also undergoing massive upgrading and is expected to be completed in April, this year. The upgrading and renovation of the port at the 429.1bn/- involved the expansion of two quays and deepening of berth depths. According to Eng Kijavara, the constructor has completed the construction of 450 metre long berths at the port and is now making final touches before handing over the project to the government. Kijavara recalls that since the inception of Tanga Port, the oldest port in East African region, ships could not call at the terminal’s quayside, due to high bedrock level, but the doubling handling will now be history thanks to the dredging of the entrance channel, turning basin and deepening of berths depth from the previous three to a 13 metre depth. “Mtwara Port expansion project has been completed by 100 per cent and now we’re handling large coal carriers. Similar renovation and expansion projects are ongoing in all inland ports,” reveals Eng Kijavara, noting that the construction of Ndumbi Port on Lake Nyasa is also complete. He adds that similar projects are ongoing at Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika, where a number of ports have been upgraded, while the government has also constructed the new Karema Port on Lake Tanganyika. “As the Ports Authority, our key role is to support economic growth. These huge investments seek to enhance the economy,” says Eng Kijavara, insisting that the Authority’s outstanding performance reflects on revenue collections by the Tanzania Tax Revenue (TRA). “The TRA’s record revenues are the economic impacts brought by the government’s investments on port infrastructures through the TPA,” he states and showers praises on the sixth phase government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan, for its continued support towards improving port infrastructures. He says President Samia’s government has funded the acquisition of modern equipment that have improved the performance of both sea and inland ports across the major water bodies and the only way the TPA can reward her is putting up a spirited and outstanding performance. “If you go to Mtwara Port, you will find what we call a ‘giraffe’, ship to shore gantry crane (SSG), which is used for loading and unloading of containers at the port, but also when you go to the Dar es Salaam Port you will find two ships to shore gantry cranes. There are also over 16 forklifts with varying capacities, reach stackers and other cargo handling equipment, we have also received tug boats, which are used to pull or push other large ships for maneuvering purposes, all these have enabled us to perform our tasks efficiently,” he lists. Kijavara adds further that the TPA is equipping all its sea and inland ports to ensure efficient and timely services to customers, noting that the authority will purchase ten tugboats for Lake Tanganyika, while pledging to equip other ports on Lake Victoria and Nyasa to ensure smooth movement of cargo between Tanzania and neighbouring countries such as DR Congo, Uganda, Burundi and Malawi. ‘The aim is to cut freight costs and time at all our ports,” he insists. The TPA, on the other hand, revealed TPA’s plans to invest at Mbamba Bay. “We’re going to completely change the face of Mbaba Bay, we’re going to construct a dockyard with the capacity of handling vessels of more than 30,000 tonnes, and we’ll build a one-stop centre, this will open our country and other neighbouring countries,” says Deputy Director General Kijavara, noting the project is expected to start this financial year. While the ongoing expansion and renovation of sea and inland ports are envisaged to massively transform TPA services, the envisaged construction of the much-hyped Bagamoyo Port would be a game changer, according to Eng Kijavara. Preparations for the construction of the Bagamoyo Port are underway with the project expected to kick off from the next financial year, through own sources as the country continues to find potential investors. “Once completed, the Bagamoyo Port would be a game changer in the ports industry not only in the country but across the Eastern and Southern Africa regions,” he says, adding that through the construction of the Bagamoyo Port, the TPA envisions to increase its handling capacity to over 10 million TEU per year. “We want to make it a pilot project that would hugely transform the ports industry not only in Tanzania, but also across the East African region. While the port of Dar es Salaam handles ships with the maximum capacity of 4,000 TEU, other major ports globally handle major ships of between 18,000 TEU and 24,000 TEU. “We want the Bagamoyo Port to have the capacity of handling 18,000 TEU and 24,000 TEU ships. Surely, this will be one of the largest ports in Africa.” Eng Kijavara says ports are catalysts for economic development as they enable trade and support supply chains, hence the ongoing investments have huge direct and induced economic benefits to the country, neighbouring nations and citizens.