TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute-Ukiriguru eyes to reach out to 15,000 farmers in Lake Zonein teaching them the new ‘Push-Pull’ technology through the Upscale project. The targeted farmers are in the regions of Mwanza, Simiyu, Mara and Geita. The remarks were made by Upscale project coordinator from TARI Ukiriguru, Dr Abdullah Mkiga, yesterday, during the launch of the five-day meeting of the Upscale project. He disclosed that upscale project aims to take key steps to realize the transformative potential of push-pull technology, to address food security, livelihoods and climate change resilience in the sub-Saharan regionwhile reducing the environmental impact of agricultural practices. He said Push-Pull technology involves intercropping Maize with a repellent plant, such as desmodium, which repels or deters stem borers from the target food crop He added that upscale collaborates with farmers and regional partners to decide on a prioritized list of candidate crops from conventional, organic, cash and mixed subsistence crops, for adapting to as a means of gender mainstreaming, and to the use of traditional varieties and locally available and economically or push-pull. He said so far they have successfully provided Push-Pull technology Education to 5000 farmers who have been given the education through the technology distribution centres in Nyakabindi, Nyamongholo and Musoma. He said they plan to find companies that can produce Desmodium seeds and send them to farmers. He said the technology is very helpful in fertilizing the land, especially for crops such as corn. TARI Ukiriguru Managing Director Paul Saidia said the main objective of the project is to help provide solutions to maize farmers. He said the project activities are conducted in five main study regions within East African countries including Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania. Each of these regions have been selected to encompass different biophysical including climate, soils, topography and farming system characteristics. He said the production of the Maize crop has been very low due to continued low soil fertility which is caused by frequent tillage.