IN a joyfully mood, a group of yellow baboon can be seen playing near the road leading to the main gate of Lake Manyara reserve. Those with children on their backs and chests walk down carefully but others quickly climb or jump from one rock to another. The troop appears to be led by an older female with strength, authority and vitality that enables her to fly lightly or climb and descend on a cliff. On the ground, each one is quickly looking for something to eat, every individual eats almost everything, including insects, lizards, as well as leaves and fruits from more than 180 species of wild plants. At the Manyara, their swiftness managed to force attention from tourists who had arrived at the national park. Regardless of their origins, these tourists feel that was a lucky day because they started taking pictures from their cars. Suddenly, the female leader, while jumping from the tallest rock, made a mistake and fell, crashing her body with an average weight of 45 kilogrammes on another rock. Due to the severe pain, the victim made a lauder cry of stress call that shocked her colleagues who were picking whatever they found was suitable to eat. The call made some of them to turn and walk towards where the sound came from before finding an infant unconsciously sliding from the top of the rock to the bottom. Yellow baboons usually communicate using more than ten different sounds that convey messages to colleagues according to the needs of the character. Throughout the day, baboons of all ages emit a basic grunt. Adults give a range of calls, but the roar grunt is made by adult males as an indication of strength to each other. The cough in a bark and a cough in contempt are made when low-flying birds or humans they do not know are sighted. A wa-hoo call is made in response to predators or neighboring groups at night and during stressful situations. Panting grunts are made when aggressive encounters escalate, shrill barks or loud calls are given when potential threats appear suddenly. Screams are made in a continuous high-pitch sounds in response to strong emotions. The most common facial expression of the baboon is lipsmacking. This is a powerful ritual which is associated with a number of behaviors, ear flattening, eyes narrowing, head shaking, jaw-clapping, lipsmacking and tongue protrusion which is used when greeting each other. Eyebrow raising, molar grinding, staring and yawning” are used to threaten other baboons. A submissive baboon responds with displays such as the fear grin, the rigid crouch”, and tail erect are other forms of communicating. Other vocalizations include broken grunting, lowvolume and quick series of grunts are made during relatively calm aggressive encounters. In the incident at Manyara, from the other side of the road there was a male leader who was carrying the child of an injured mother, he put him down and followed the female who was now bleeding from the nose. The male bent down and softly grabbed the female who seemed to be completely unconscious, while using his hands he tried to help her by putting her in a safe place. The other baboons moved to and from one point to another each trying to do something for the victim who was still unconscious. During all that time, the male leader continued to be very close to his companion but after a few minutes the female took her last breath and died. In a situation that surprised many, adult yellow baboon prevented the babies from moving near the area where their friend’s corpse was laying. They even stopped the female members with babies to get closer to the victim, within the troop that act caused confusion because some members did not believe that their leader had died due to carelessness. The yellow baboon’s life system is hierarchical and through it they are able to reduce or eliminate unnecessary conflicts in their communities. Zoologists say, in order to penetrate into the troop a lonely male has to lower himself and be humble by helping the older female in the troop. That was the main cause of the incident at Lake Manyara where the female had an accident due to her carelessness, the male was helping her carry her baby. Baboons are considered to be among the intelligent creatures with the ability to face various challenges and solve them. Their minds can distinguish between joy and sorrow, pleasure and suffering, the forest is full of dangerous animals, so they live cautiously by looking for food on the ground and sleeping on trees at night. The quality of their minds is proven by the ability to choose a strong branch to sleep at night so it doesn’t break and drop them on the ground for sharp claws and strong jaws of lions. Wildlife experts say a 14-year study carried out in national parks in East and Central Africa has proved that baboons perceives death in a different way than other primates. The investigation has identified that when each of them is faced with a problem such as being attacked by a fierce wild animal, the whole troop provides help even if it is not able to fight the enemy. Experts say that some males of yellow baboon become sad after losing their loved ones, so they are unable to work to find food and in the end they separate from the group and die of loneliness. There have been unconfirmed reports from some East African forests of yellow baboons breaking tree branches to confront a leopard that snatched a baby from its mother’s back. On their part, experts say what is known is the group screaming to disturb and frustrated the predator and force it to leave for their safety. Experts have discovered that baboons know the effects of staying close to a seriously injured individual, knowing they are unable to do anything they leave nature to take its cause. In Manyara when the female leader’s condition changed and she lost life, male baboons stopped their offspring from watching the scene so that they do not see or touch the corpse. This shows a unique behavior among wildlife in the way they perceive death, researchers say they still haven’t been able to determine how or to what extent yellow baboon take death if you compare them to humans. In the incident at Manyara, the male baboon screamed to call others to come and help him when he was handling the female leader who hit her head on a rock. Experts say the community of yellow baboons is always under the leadership of an older female who give out orders and supervise everything in the troop. However, males grow to 84 centimeters in height against 60 centimeters which may be reached by a healthier female member on its maturity stage. If you think baboons are cowards think twice before you make any conclusion, a film titled In the Shadow of Kilimanjaro played in 1986 by actors John Rhys Davies, Timothy Bottoms and Irene Miracle has a special lesson for us. This fill was performed in Kenya by a company from England shows the great ability of baboon to fight and overcome different challenges. Prepared from an exciting and terrifying fiction, the film shows life of baboon who were faced with food shortages after a severe drought hit a part of Mount Kilimanjaro. To avoid death, the film show how the unique primate organized themselves and started to attack, kill and eat meat from animals other animals and people. Baboons are equipped with powerful hands and long enough to climb trees to pick fruit, hide from enemies and catch small animals for food. Baboons have great ability to use their hands or feet to save themselves, this is proved in one incident along Mara river in Serengeti national park. In that incident, while drinking water an individual was caught by a hungry crocodile who wanted to force into the water. While its head was trapped inside the mouth of the big crocodile, the baboon used its feet to hold on to the big root of the tree while using its hands to prevent the crocodile’s sharp teeth from squeezing its neck. That happened as other baboons screamed to terrify the predator while few courageous individual went closer and fought along with the victim. After a long tug-of-war, the crocodile was forced to give up and let the baboon to get out alive, that was unique incident because crocodiles have one of the strongest jaws in the world. Baboons have slender bodies with long tails, those who their bodies are covered with clay-colored fur colored with yellow, they are called yellow Baboons in English. For many centuries in a world which is going through climate changes, baboons have been the champions of facing different challenges. History shows, from thousands of years ago when the tropical forests were shrinking on Earth, the monkeys moved to the Savannah. It is in the grasslands of Serengeti National Park and others where these animals thrive from eating fruit and everything even if it didn’t taste good. While in Savannah where access to water is not good, they changed the habit of drinking water every day and drinking it every two days, but they may lick the moisture at night to quench their thirst. A troop made by 8 to 200 individuals, baboons may stay in one area for a while depending on the availability of food. Baboons work during day light and sleep on rocks or trees before they wake up in the morning then get together in groups to greet each other through grooming. After this ritualized greetings, the elders issue an order for the troop to be divided into smaller troops made and groups, then everyone leave in two or three lines until they reach a place with good pasture. Walking five or six miles a day on their way to good pasture, they probably eat everything they can find. Usually when they get good source of food, baboons eat for three hours, then rest during the hot sun and they return to eat in the evening before 6 o’clock in the evening when they return to their shelter to sleep. Before sleeping, baboons spend a little time to rest while grooming and getting rid of insects such as lice from each other. This is a special ritual which builds relation among members of the group who eat and living together in a troop made by 50 females and 7 males. Tension in the group is controlled through gender ranking system as families are headed by an elder and strong female backed by her female relatives with their offspring. If you thought that only humans have houses, then you are very wrong because baboons too have a unique place to sleep also they respect their neighbors’ place. When one enters the border of another family’s place to sleep, a fight can happen, but most of the time individuals avoid doing so. When young males mature, they go back and forth from one group to another to find a suitable place to establish a troop. Sometimes this action causes conflict within a troop but at the end the new male may be accepted in the new troop. That may happen after establishing a relationship with one beautiful female member from the new troop. This relationship is built by helping females protect her baby and families in times of danger. This unique ability shows that humans are not the only ones who have the capability to care women, even baboons do it especially to their wives. There are many things that baboons do that are similar to what humans do, but acting as babysitters is very interesting. rstanslaus@yahoo.com