HISTORY teaches us that Sunflower (Helianthus annuus) was first domesticated as a food crop in North America, perhaps as early as 3000 BC. This was introduced to Europe in the 1600s and successfully developed as an oil crop in Russia in the early 1800s. With that trend spreading to other parts of the world, it was introduced in Tanzania during colonial times and found to grow in almost all parts of the country. Interestingly, the crop grows well in the dry weather conditions of the Central Corridor compared to other crops like maize and wheat. In areas like Mbeya (Southern Highlands), Dodoma and Singida (Central Corridor), the area under sunflower varies from 1 – 10 acres per household. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations, the average yield of sunflower is 979 kilogram per hectare. And there are various varieties of sunflowers and each one will grow at a different rate. On average, though, it takes between 80 and 120 days for the plant to mature and develop seeds. Equally, it is known that sunflower is one of the three most important oilseed crops grown in the central agricultural zone of Tanzanian, where local demand for sunflower oil, which is cholesterol free, is increasing and its potential of improving income of smallholder producers is also rising. For example, a study that was conducted in Kongwa and Singida Rural Districts where a total of 60 respondents were involved realised that the sunflower production in the area has potential for improving the income of smallholder producers in the Central Agricultural Zone of Tanzania and hence its promotion is recommended. With the above background, Geita Gold Mining Limited (GGML) deserves praise for distributing 23 tonnes of sunflower seeds to the locals, who grow it in Geita Region as a source of livelihood. Known to be offering support to farmers, because it builds resilience against climatic and economic shocks while incentivising downstream investment in the value chain, the GGML distribution will go as 13.8 tonnes going to Geita District Council and 9.1 tonnes to Geita Town Council and finally reach their respective farmers at the grassroots. In quick analysis, it was noted that the support reflects GGML’s ambition to transform the agricultural sector in the communities surrounding the mine, since 2015 when most of the farmers in the localities decided to give it a trail and realised that they could rely on it besides cultivating maize, cassava, groundnuts and raise livestock. Speaking during the ceremony to handover the seeds to Kasota famers in Geita District Council, GGML’s Senior Manager for Sustainability, Gilbert Mworia said that the Company had spent 108M/- to procure the sunflower seeds targeting 5,875 farmers from both Geita Town and District Councils. He added: “GGML aspires to benefit the host community by initiating sustainable projects which will outlast besides the mining activities. We are delighted to distribute these seeds during the looming rainy season because this is the opportune time for farmers to start planting the seeds,” he said. It was noted that the seismic shift in the crop’s cultivation was accompanied by a special capacity building programme to the farmers as part of the Mine’s Environment Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives in the area to impart knowledge and best practices methods to small farmers. This led to the introduction of sunflower farming under technical support by the Cholima Agriculture Institute-an agricultural research organisation engaged by GGML in the areas to boost the crop’s cultivation. Commenting, Geita District Commissioner Colonel Boniphace Maghembe commended GGML for the donation and called on Geita farmers to fully utilise the support in the current rainy season, saying: “Geita District has a population of 1.4 million people and a large percentage of this population depends on agriculture. We have a very huge role to play by encouraging our farmers to practice modern agricultural methodologies, because it can easily transform our economy.The climatic condition of this area allows farmers to cultivate twice a year, something which could maximize their harvests.” On behalf of other farmers cultivating the crop, Mr Saa Kumi from Kasota area, who is also the NYABUSAKAMA Cooperative Society Chairman, said the consignment would improve their yields tremendously. Whilst giving a brief historical reference in his remarks, Mr Kumi noted that sunflower farming was something new to them until 2015, when it was introduced in Kasota area following a joint capacity building initiative between GGML and Cholima Agriculture Institute. Elaborating, he added that a variety of the crop’s seeds from Agriculture Seed Agency have shown positive results with yields motiving to the extent of producing between 12 and 18 litres of sunflower oil per 100 kilogrammes of sunflower seeds. With the demand for edible oil growing exponentially, the future for these farmers with support from the company is bright and many have been seen eking out a living from its cultivation. Equally, the AngloGold Ashanti – Geita Gold Mining Limited GGML has supported NYABUSAKAMA with two oil producing factory machines with the capacity to process sunflower seeds at a very high speed. Known to take 25 minutes for 600 kilogrammes of sunflower seeds to be processed, in particular, one machine processes the sunflower plant for seeds and the second one to squeeze edible oil relied on in many households in the surrounding communities.