THE ongoing efforts for political consensus initiated by President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan have taken a new development with the idea now being brought down to political stakeholders at grassroots. In the implementation, Tanzania Centre for Democracy (TCD) on Monday launched a programme for conducting political dialogues at district levels in efforts to further spread political consensus among the people. This followed a series of meetings at the top level, where national leaders from different political parties saw the importance of working with President Dr Samia in implementing her 4Rs, which stand for Reconciliation, Resiliency, Reforms and Rebuilding. The latest development was the President’s decision to allow political parties to hold public rallies in the country. In particular, the Vice-Chairman of the TCD, Prof Ibrahim Lipumba noted that the Head of State has agreed to have political rallies to allow political parties do their activities freely and peacefully. “President Dr Samia has allowed political parties to implement their duties freely so as to create a good political state in the country and as well help develop the country, since the 4Rs stand for Reconciliation, Resiliency, Reforms and Rebuilding,” Prof Lipumba said. To start with, the TCD launched the political forum in Ilala District, with the aim of uniting the leaders of political parties in the district. He said the Forum will facilitate discussion and promote democracy, peace and solidarity in the nation. “At the national level we have a platform where we meet and discuss different political issues as well as identify the best way of solving problems,” Prof Lipumba explained. Equally, he emphasised on the importance of establishing an independent electoral commission, arguing that it is a necessary tool for sustainable democracy in the country. “As the nation we need to have an independent electoral commission that will have the ability to manage the 2024 local government elections and the 2025 general election,” he explained. On his part, Deputy Political and Economic Affairs Chief at the US Embassy, Mr Bion Bliss, said the US cooperates with its partners in ensuring that democracy is strengthened in Tanzania. He added that citizens have a right to choose leaders they want, but also to have a free election, peace and justice. Commenting, the national chairman of the ACT Wazalendo, Mr Zitto Kabwe, said the platform will be an important place to bring together the leaders of the political parties at district levels to discuss various challenges and be able to find answers. “I believe that through TCD under its Chairman, Abdulrahman Kinana we will have a discussion on solving political problems at district levels and make sure that the good political environment is well maintained so as to have a peaceful election in the coming years,” Mr Kabwe said.