MORE than 300 business people from Europe will today participate in a business symposium between Tanzania and European Union (TZ-EU) to showcase Tanzania’s opportunities and the comparative advantage for EU investors. The symposium dubbed ‘European Union -Tanzania Investment Forum’ will also facilitate discussion among business peers, government officials and political leaders of both Tanzania and Europe in view of catalysing new partnerships. The Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Board Director, Mr Octavian Mshiu said in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday that the symposium will offer tools for private investors, such as a work permit, registration and private sector development access to finance connectivity skills development. “The business delegation from Europe is coming to look for investment opportunities and thus it’s time to convince them to make investment decisions in the country,” he said. He added, “There are investors in Europe who are stranded due to conflicts and probably have invested in areas that experiencing economic crises at the moment.” He said the symposium will be a platform for direct interaction between Business to Business (B2), firms and policymakers (B2G) and companies and financing institutions (B2F). Mr Mshiu urged Tanzanian business people to use the symposium as an opportunity to promote the country’s opportunities available. He said Tanzania is a peaceful country, and good economic diplomacy and political issues as well as the geographical area could be reasons for foreign investors to come to invest in the country. Mr Mshiu said the business people are coming to Tanzania not only due to the global economic downturn but also have seen Tanzania as the right place to invest and generate profit and thus as a country should promote its investment opportunities available in all sectors. He said that to ensure economic growth in the country TPSF will continue to improve and publicize the opportunities available in the country by organising international commercial symposiums. The board director said that in collaboration with the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) are developing economic diplomacy by organizing business conferences in the regions, improving domestic trade, promoting foreign trade and improving the environment of the country in general. Tanzania is one of the 10 fastest growing economies in Africa. The growth reflects the country’s sustained economic stability in a context of rich natural endowments and a strategic geographic position. Moreover, Tanzania’s growth prospects are supported by an emerging middle class and an increasing appetite for high-value goods and services that European firms offer.