DEAR nephew Milambo, Greetings from this very confused city. My dear son, I hope that by the grace of Limatunda you and your family are all doing okay, and that the watchful eyes of the ancestors have been watching over you. I also hope that Liwelelo has been good to the people of my beloved Ukumbisiganga, and that they are enjoying good health and prosperity. I hope too that by now your daughter is feeling okay, because your aunt told me that the little angel was suffering from severe cough. I think it is because of the weather change, coming from Dar es Salaam and going to Tabora, because at her age her immune system is still very delicate. I understand that you are still looking for a suitable school for your son, and I pray to Limatunda that you will succeed very soon. I will send you some money so that it can help towards his school fees, because it is a good idea to give the little boy some good education background at an early age. Here in the confused city things are not bad, we thank the ancestors because we are all in very good health, although your aunt had a slight headache in the morning, but she is now very okay. I think it is because just the other day when the world was celebrating that Valentine fellow’s day, she indulged herself by taking rare red wine…a lot of it. You see son, I told you that she was bustling with activity before the day, and I told you how I refused to wear a red shirt she wanted to buy for me. Call me an old timer, but I will never celebrate something which is not in our culture, because as Africans we are supposed to celebrate our own ancestors instead of these white fellows with weird names. There are so many African heroes who need to be celebrated, beginning with our own great Chief Mirambo, who terrorised his enemies day and night while leading his deadly Ruga ruga. I know I have told you countless times about the dreaded army that Chief Mirambo led in war with great success, but I never get tired of talking about those fierce Ruga rugas who made the hearts of great warriors freeze in fear during battles. Chief Mirambo’s ability to unite the many hitherto separate Nyamwezi clans into a powerful kingdom by the 1870s gave him strategic control of Swahili-Arab trade routes and threatened the preeminence of the Swahili-Arabs’ colony in Unyanyembe. His capital, Urambo, became a major rival trading centre and attracted traders, many of whom were primarily interested in the ivory so abundant in the interior of East Africa. These are the people whom we should dedicate a special day to celebrate their victories, instead of hunting for flowers because a white fellow called Valentine said so. Anyway, as Africans we should blame ourselves because we have allowed the western culture to influence our own sacred culture. But I know what I know because I decided to know, but I did not want to force what I know into your aunt, that is why on that day I did not create any fuss when she told me that we are going for a romantic dinner at a very expensive restaurant in town. I have to admit she looked gorgeous in her red outfit, and because I had decided to go along with what she had planned, I even sent someone to get some red roses for her. I loved the surprised look on her face when I presented the flowers to her after collecting them from the young fellow I had sent at the gate. I had excused myself and told her that I was going to the washroom after the fellow texted me that he was already at the gate with the flowers. I can swear she looked like a 30-year-old woman when I approached the table from behind and flashed the flowers right in front of her. I have to admit too that I had a great time, because the food was fantastic and the service was superb, that is why your aunt swallowed enough red wine which convinced her that the day should not end before we danced to some of our old favorite songs. I know that there is a slight chance that I am starting to bore you with my tale on how we had fun, but I am encouraged because your aunt told me that you also took your wife out for dinner that day. I will be waiting to hear everything about your outing my dear son, because I know such things add some valuable points to your marriage. I was talking to aunt Sophia who told me that she will be in Dar es Salaam next week, so if you can please give her some tobacco because my stock is slowly running out. She told me that she will stay in Dar es Salaam for at least four days before taking her flight to Europe to visit her son. I insisted that she should at least spend a few days with us before she leaves, and I thank Limatunda because she agreed, so from next week I will have another visitor in my house. I am still making plans to come over to Ukumbisiganga before the Easter festivities, but I will be sure to tell you in advance my dear boy so that we can put things in order. Don’t tell anyone, but I am planning to get rid of my foreman because I have received a lot of complaints concerning him. I gave you the authority to make close follow ups on the farm my son, but it seems you have not yet gotten the time to do so, because I know you would have known about it by now. I have been told that the fellow starts drinking from as early as 11 am almost on a daily basis, but what pissed me off completely was learning that he has an affair with a married woman. We will talk more my dear son, so take good care of yourself and your family, say hallo to my folks in my beloved Ukumbisiganga.