NMB Bank has said the 10 weeks campaign seeking to advance digital finance has led to a tremendous increase of digital transactions in support of the country’s efforts to boost cash less economy. This was said by the Bank’s Chief of Retail Banking, Mr Filbert Mponzi at the conclusion of the MastaBata digital fourth edition campaign in Dar es Salaam yesterday that seeks to promote use of payment cards like NMB Mastercard and NMB Mastercard QR, and other digital channels like NMB Mkononi. “As the leading bank and champion of financial inclusion, we are obliged to support efforts to promote digital payments in the country and less use of hard cash in the national economy,” he noted. The winners of the grand finale of the competition who won a four-day trip to Dubai are namely Ms Upendo Yohana Msanjila (Dar), Mr Edwin Sett Mwakabage (Kilimanjaro) and Ms Benigna Xaveria Hyera (Dar). Others are Ms Nazia Abdulsatar Lakha (Dar), John Wayne Lubisha (Dodoma) and Chintan Chandrakant Kamania (Dar). The winners will be accompanied by their partners during the fully paid excursion to the Middle East destination. Mr Mponzi said the conclusion of the campaign was deliberately planned to coincide with the Valentine season so that winners of the final draw could be accorded the opportunity to enjoy their victory during the period. The first edition of the series, which are undertaken in conjunction with payment industry giant Mastercard International of the US, was held in 2018. It was followed by MastaBata Sio Kawaida, then MastaBata–KivyakoVyako and MastaBata – Kote Kote. “During the campaign, we have had 750 weekly winners who each pocketed 100,000/-. The other 98 customers won 1m/- each while four young people were sponsored to attend the full moon party in Zanzibar,” Mr Mponzi said. NMB’s Head of Card Business, Mr Philbert Casmir, said traditionally the campaigns are held at the end of the year to reward customers and motivate them to transact more digitally. “Most importantly, the MastaBata campaigns are geared towards ensuring safety and security of customers’ funds because digital transactions are not only convenient but also very safe and secure,” he explained.