TANZANIA has confirmed to participate in this year’s All Africa Golf Junior Team Championship in Uganda. The annual competition is being organised by Uganda Golf Union (UGU) under the auspices of the Africa Golf Confederation (AGC) and brings together top African juniors for a tee-off at the Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort in Kampala. Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) chairman Gilman Kasiga confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that they have already confirmed their participation during a meeting in Kampala. “Tanzania will send a team to participate in the  Africa Junior Tour, we are upbeat to sparkle in the showdown,” he said. Adding, Kasiga said the preparation for the event is already halfway  as Tanzania wants to sparkle in the event. This will be the first international assignment of the newly elected TGU office bearers under Kasiga. They had a big task ahead to bring desirable glory as it needs proper preparation to overcome tough teams including our East African Community (EAC) member states like Kenya and Uganda who have been doing well in continental-level showpieces. The top two boys’ teams and the winner in the girl’s category will qualify for the Toyota World Junior Championship to be held in Japan in June 2023. Tanzanian teams returned to the competition after missing the last year’s event  held from March 26th to April 1st  at Palm Hills golf course 6th of October course in Giza, Egypt. Egypt hosted the event that could not be held in 2020 and 2021 due to the global Covid-19 outbreak. Former TGU competition secretary Enock Magile was quoted in this paper as saying Tanzania could not manage to send junior teams to Egypt due to visa complications. He said: “We were working on visa arrangements to Egypt but we could not get in time to be able to send the team,” he said. The junior event is among AGC’s main targets as it gears up to promote and develop the game in the continent. After the juniors battle according to AGC calendar, Ethiopia will host Africa Region 4 in Addis Ababa in June 2023, and seven countries are expected to participate in this event including Tanzania. Region 4 is under the former TGU chairman, Chris Martin who was elected as Region Director in September last year and will oversee his first event.