TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) has unveiled the national men and women’s seniors and juniors boys and girls teams’ coaches who will oversee the teams in the international level competitions. As revealed by TBF Secretary General Mwenze Kabinda in Dar es Salaam on Monday, the coaches will carry out important tasks in collaboration with TBF coaches and the planning commission to ensure the national teams perform well. In the list, there is the men’s national team head coach Mohamed Mbwana from the International School of Tanganyika, who will be assisted by Ashraf Haroun from Vijana Basketball, while the women’s senior team will be under three coaches, including the head coach Kablola Shomari of Vijana Basketball, Elizabeth Masenyi from JKT Tanzania as assistant head and Shomari Shomari from Mwanza as an assistant coach. Phabian Mjarifu from Pamoja Basketball Academy from Arusha was named as Under- 18 boys team’s head coach and will be assisted by Aboubakar Msabaha from Pemba as Phineas Kahabi of Unmatched Basketball Academy will be a players’ development coach. Also, Raymond Yusuph (Orkeeswa Secondary School) from Arusha was named the junior under -18 girls coach, Khadija Kalambo from JMK Kikwete Youth Park of Dar es Salaam team is the assistant head coach while Maureen Sizya from Heaven of Peace School of Dar es Saalam is a players’ development coach. In the boys under- 16 team, the head coach is Mohamed Mchenga from Mchenga Basketball Stars of Dar es Salaam and will be assisted by Juma Mbise of Vijana Basketball team while Denis Lipiki of Ukonga Basketball Academy will take charge of the juniors Under- 16 girls’ team as the head coach. Prisca Boniface (SUA Basketball team) of Morogoro and Anasi Kigonajoro from Kigoma’s Tanganyika Basketball Training will be the assistant head coaches. “The selection we have adopted through the commission of coaches & planning recommendations, they will manage our teams depending on the various competitions in this year’s international calendar,” he said. He stressed that the federation will continue with the teams’ development programme and preparation according to the calendar. TBF recently also, said they work on a proposal for the creation of a special committee for national teams (juniors and seniors) that will be responsible for improving the performance of Tanzania’s national basketball teams. The committee will be responsible for developing talents among the youth, gathering resources to support the national teams and promote basketball throughout the country, and inspiring stakeholders and Tanzanians, in general, to invest in the game.