THE Aga Khan Health Service Tanzania and the Polish government, through the Polish Centre for International Aid, have distributed equipment worth 641.3m/- to seven health facilities in Dar es Salaam and Mwanza, to strengthen the capacity in providing emergency care. Speaking with ‘Daily News’ recently, the Project Coordinator of Improving Emergency Care in Tanzania (IMECT) Dr Hussein Manji noted that the equipment handover is part of the 1.8bn/- IMECT project that aims at  strengthening  emergency care in three Aga Khan health facilities and four public entities. Dr Manji named the four public health facilities that will benefit from the donation to including Mwananyamala, Temeke, and Chanika in Dar es Salaam and Nyamagana Health Centre in Mwanza. The IMECT Project also encompasses first aid training for first responders such as traffic officers, police force, firefighters, an aspect that focuses on heightening the response to emergencies at first contact. The project has trained about 1,100 first responders in the respective regions. He added that the project includes providing equipment to areas with acute shortage, training gear for teaching, and improving the quality of emergency care by training trainers and providers to develop skills. “Emergency medicine is a specialised field of its own, and it is not enough to know what to do and when to do it but to have the resources and capacity to apply the knowledge into practice. “When we strengthen the infrastructure through making equipment for diagnosing and managing emergency cases available, we give patients with critical emergencies a better chance of survival.” The equipment included diagnostic and therapeutic tools like ECG machines, Vein finders, nebuliser machines, intraosseous access drivers, laryngoscope sets, oxygen flow meters and more, and consumables like oxygen masks, cervical collars, endotracheal tubes and chest tubes. There were also fully equipped first aid kits and CPR pocket masks for the first responder organisations to facilitate the adequate provision of first aid on the ground. During the handover ceremony, the Dar es Salaam Regional Medical Officer, Dr Rashid Mfaume, thanked Aga Khan and the Polish government for the aid to improve emergency care in the country. “It is a privilege to receive such aid from the Aga Khan Health Service and Polish government,” he remarked. “These equipment distributed will improve the quality of emergency care at the targeted health facilities and reduce the mortality rate of patients succumbing to emergencies.” Chief Executive Officer of Aga Khan Health Service, Sisawo Konteh, commended the government’s efforts to improve health service in the country, insisting that such a project is a milestone. “This is a milestone as emergency care is critical and sensitive, and the government is making many strides to improve emergency care in the country. He said  having such care will complement the government to improve emergency care service in the country. Dr Wojtek Wilk, CEO of – the Polish Centre for International Aid through the virtual conference, said: “We are happy and proud to work with the government of Tanzania through the Aga Khan Health Services to strengthen emergency care in Dar es Salaam and Mwanza. “This equipment will complement the medical training over the three years of this project by providing the opportunity to learn using modern training equipment and will enable the establishment of modern equipped emergency departments,” Dr Wilk added.