YOUNG Africans skipper Bakari Mwamnyeto said winning or picking an away point against US Monastir is their target since it will give their group stage mission a flying start. The two teams lock horns in their Group D opener of the CAF Confederation Cup at Stade Olympique Stadium in Tunis, Tunisia tomorrow for a seemingly explosive match. It is the first time ever for them to exchange tackles at a pitch thus making it an interesting game. “Of course, the game is going to be tough as we have never met them before and that alone determines how difficult it is going to be. “For us, a win or a draw will be good to us before engaging in our home match against TP Mazembe. The good thing is that we have played at this pitch before as such; we are not strangers here,” Mwamnyeto said. In terms of cold weather storming the city, he said they are slowly getting used to it and that arriving early in Tunis has helped them a lot to adapt to the weather. Yanga’s formal first on-field training session in Tunis was conducted on Thursday under the guidance of Tunisian coach Nasreddine Nabi who will be fighting the battle on his home soil. Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze expressed his satisfaction with the way his charges are grasping training sessions while insisting that they are ready for the match. “They are well-focused and committed to doing well. First group stage matches are always very important because they help to define your destiny throughout the contest that is why we aim to begin on the front pedal. “Response from players is always encouraging as they take each training session seriously and this is exactly what is giving us the confidence to do much better on the day (tomorrow),” Kaze remarked. The deployed Yanga squad in Tunisia consists of Djigui Diarra, Metacha Mnata, Erick Johora, Ibrahim Bacca, Bakari Mwamnyeto, Dickson Job, Kibwana Shomari, Farid Mussa, Mudathir Yahya, ZawadiThe Mauya, Yanick Bangala and Jesus Moloko. Others are Clement Mzize, Joyce Lomalisa, Tuisila Kisinda, Salum Abubakar, David Bryson, Dickson Ambundo, Mamadou Doumbia, Khalid Aucho, Djuma Shabani, Fiston Mayele, Kennedy Musonda and Stephanie Aziz Ki.