SINGIDA Big Stars and Azam continue to rock the top-three finish battle of the season’s Premier League as they keep exchanging the spot between themselves. Currently, the two teams are now separated with one point basing on the fact that the Singida based club has bagged 44 points from 23 matches and they remain with seven games before winding up their campaign. A 1-1 draw with Ihefu at Southern Highlands Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya over the weekend was enough for Hans Van Pluijm men to overtake the Ice Cream makers from the third position. Pluijm, on several instances, has been disclosing that their priority has been shifted from being title contenders to top four finish in order to claim a privilege of featuring in CAF Interclub Games. With 44 points, it means they are 9 points behind the second-placed Simba and 15 points inferior to the leaders Young Africans meaning that practically, their race for the championship title is almost dented. On the other hand, Azam are now on fourth place with 43 points after 22 outings meaning that they need to beat Simba to reclaim the seat or at least stamp a draw. The two teams meet in a ‘Mzizima Derby’ on February 21st at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam with the latter seeking to reverse the 1-0 defeat they suffered in the first round. Aside from revenge, the Msimbazi Street Reds are much aware that any drop of points clears a path for their traditional rivals Young Africans to claim the season’s league title. In the same token, a 12-point gap exists between the current fifth- placed occupants Geita Gold and Azam as such; the top three battle is heavily being contested by Singida Big Stars and Azam. Meanwhile, the 23rd round matches will continue on February 17th when Geita Gold host Ruvu Shooting at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita with each team searching for the vital win. On February 18th, Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga will be on fire as Coastal Union welcome Mbeya City before witnessing Kagera Sugar taking on Namungo. The bottom- placed Polisi Tanzania will be at home to host  Tanzania Prisons at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi on February 19th, a chance for the former to rejuvenate. The explosive clash of the 23rd round will be on February 21st when Simba host Azam at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. A day after, KMC host Young Africans at Benjamin Mkapa venue in a match set to wrap up the 23rd round of the campaign.