CAF Interclub Games envoys; Simba and Young Africans have turned their arsenals to Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) as they face decisive fixtures before stepping into the quarterfinals. Simba take on African Sports on Thursday while Yanga face Tanzania Prisons on Friday in two epic matches whose winner cruise into the last eight stage of the competition. However, following maintenance works at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, the games will be rescheduled to either Uhuru Stadium or Azam Complex in Chamazi. The management at the 60,000-capacity arena has already declared that for the time being, the venue will be excused from domestic competitions until May this year when face-lifting exercises are set to be completed. As such; only return leg matches of the Champions League and the Confederation Cup timed on March 8th and 9th respectively, will be permitted to unfold at the country’s biggest stadium. To reach this far, Simba eliminated Coastal Union with a 1-0 win while their opponents African Sports defeated New Dundee 4-2 on post-match penalties after playing to a barren  draw. For Yanga, they hammered Rhino Rangers 7-0 whereas their rivals Tanzania Prisons bundled out Mashujaa 8-7 also through post-match spot kicks as the normal play elapsed in a 2-2 balance. In other ASFC last 16 games, Geita Gold host Green Warriors at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita on Friday with both sides keen to win. On Saturday, three matches will be played as Ihefu welcome Pan African at Highland Estates Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya, Mtibwa Sugar take on KMC in an all-Premier League meeting at Manungu Complex in Morogoro while Singida Big Stars will go head-to-head with JKT Tanzania at Liti Stadium in Singida. On Sunday, two venues will explode when Azam take on Mapinduzi at Azam Complex in the city while Kagera Sugar lock horns with Mbeya City at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera for another all-Premier League clash. However, ASFC is played in knockout format meaning that if the outcome after the normal period of play does not separate the two sides, post-match penalties are entertained in order to identify one team which moves on to the next phase. Yanga are defending the title.