PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan on Friday joined other East African Community (EAC) Heads of State in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia to discuss the implementation of the Nairobi peace process and Luanda roadmap in a bid to address the deteriorating security situation in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The mini summit which was held on the sidelines of the 36th ordinary session of the Africa Union (AU) assembly scheduled for today and tomorrow among others, demanded withdrawal of all armed groups from DRC by March 30th this year. The mini summit was co-chaired by the current chairperson of the EAC President Evariste Ndayishimiye of Burundi and President Jao Lourenco of Angola, who is the AU-designated mediator between Rwanda and DRC. It was attended by Presidents Paul Kagame (Rwanda), Felix Tshisekedi (DR Congo) and counterparts William Ruto (Kenya) among other East African Community leaders. Uganda President Yoweri Museveni was represented by his deputy, Jessica Alupo. Foreign Affairs Minister Gen Jeje Odongo also attended. The summit, the Angolan leader said, is part of the efforts to “maintain dialogue” between Kinshasa and Kigali. The Addis Ababa summit comes against the backdrop of a recent EAC leaders’ summit in Bujumbura, Burundi on February 4th this year, which called for an immediate ceasefire in eastern Congo. The EAC leaders also directed withdrawal of all armed groups by March 30th this year from occupied areas in DRC. It also recommended immediate ceasfire by all armed groups, directed resettlement of internally displaced persons as well as recommended formation of EAC Monitoring and Evaluation mechanism to complement expanded joint verification mechanism and adhoc verification mechanism. Uganda and South Sudan troops, EAC leaders added, should immediately join the Kenyan troops under the East African Community Regional Forces (EACRF) to secure North Kivu from foreign armed rebel groups operating in eastern Congo. “The main purpose of the meeting is to evaluate the current situation in eastern DRC with a view of coming up with decisions that will ameliorate the security situation and facilitate the restoration of peace and security in eastern DRC,” Ndayishimiye, who chaired the summit in Bujumbura, said two weeks ago. Ndayishimiye, who is the chairperson of the regional bloc of Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan and DRC, added that under Article 11 (3) of the EAC treaty, member states are enjoined to “constantly review the state of peace and security” within the region. The Assembly of AU Heads of State and Government, which starts today, has set its focus on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The theme for the AU summit is; “The Year of AfCFTA: Acceleration of the African Continental Free Trade Area Implementation.” Tanzania submitted the instruments of its ratification of the AfCFTA agreement to the African Union Commission (AUC) in January last year and it is among the first seven African countries which have been given priority to send products to the integrated African market of over 1.3 billion people. Ratifying the AfCFTA agreement showed the readiness of Tanzania to access the continental market. The AfCFTA would foster the free movement of goods, services and people across borders and help meet the continent’s enormous economic potential. The summit will consider and make far-reaching decisions on various political and socio-economic areas to promote and advance the welfare and quality of life for the African citizenry. The Assembly will also consider various reports, including, but not limited to institutional reforms of the African Union, state of peace and security in Africa, activities of the Peace and Security Council and the implementation of the AU Master Roadmap of Practical Steps to Silence the Guns in Africa. They will further discuss the global political, financial and energy, policy governance and the food crisis. The assembly will discuss AU response on Covid-19 pandemic and evaluate report of the First-Ten Year implementation plan and the development of the Agenda 2063 Second-Ten Year Implementation Plan. AfCFTA, climate change, progress on the committee of Africa CDC and the appointment of the Director General of Africa CDC and appointment of one member of the AU Board of External Auditors are also on agenda.