SIMBA’S  coach Roberto Oliveira believes the presence of Saidi Ntibazonkiza in their next CAF Champions League match against Raja Casablanca will be key for their success. The two teams meet at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday for their second group stage match as both eyeing maximum points. It is a battle between group C toppers Raja Casablanca who have 3 points and five goals against the third-placed Simba who are yet to win a match and score a goal. Speaking upon arrival at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in the city yesterday morning, the Brazilian trainer described Ntibazonkiza as a key player for him and the whole team. He then called on his charges to provide maximum performance on the day in order to emerge winners and bag all three points from the home soil. Moreover, Oliveira disclosed that he was impressed with the way his side played in the second half against Horoya insisting that they could have won the match after missing three clear chances inside the box. “I call upon many Simba fans on Saturday to come and support the team because I and the players like to play with maximum support from our fans,” he said. In a related development, Simba’s holding midfielder Sadio Kanoute has been ruled out of Saturday’s match after picking three yellow cards which disqualifies him for one match. The club’s Media and Communication Manager Ahmed Ally confirmed this yesterday at a press briefing as he insisted that Ntibazonkiza will be part of the brigade to upset the visitors. The Msimbazi Street Reds continue to search first win in the unfolding Champions League contest and are aware that Saturday’s fixture is a must-win duel for them so as to revamp their chances of sliding into the last eight. After facing the Moroccan giants, Simba’s focus will swiftly turn to the Premier League as they entertain Azam in a dubbed Mzizima Derby clash at Benjamin Mkapa arena on February 21st. Here, it means they will have two days of resting before engaging the Chamazi giants who currently sit in fourth place of the table with 43 points from 22 games.