THE government has banned the use supplementary books in all schools across the country with content that goes against the national morals, traditions and children’s upbringing. The ban involves both public and private schools registered in the country. The development comes a few weeks after the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology directed education officers and quality controllers to visit all schools and libraries to identify unethical books being used by the institutions. The directives follow complaints by some stakeholders that some books being used in some schools are bad content. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Francis Michael said the list of supplementary books with unethical content will be made public soon, warning that schools which will not obey the order will be deregistered. Speaking to reporters here yesterday, Dr Michael said it has come to the government’s attention that some schools have been using supplementary books whose content is against the country’s morals, traditions and children’s upbringing. He directed school owners to be guided by the rules, regulations and terms of their registration as well as circulars on books’ content. “We have banned the use of books with content that is against Tanzanians’ morals in all schools and the minister in charge of the docket will issue the list soon as well as guidance on the implementation of the order” said Dr Michael. “The educational system in the country aims at ensuring that students receive education and abilities necessary to thrive in life, but it is equally critical that this education should be based on sound moral principles,” he said. Recently some books with unethical content such as same sex relationship were displayed on social media with some of them alleged being used by some schools. It goes without saying that majority of Tanzanians are against homosexuality, it is immoral to introduce children to educational materials or information that promote same-sex relationships. The government has taken timely action by removing any materials that were covertly introduced into the educational system. The ministry of education also announced a call centre numbers-0262160270-landline and 0737962965-mobile to report students’ abuse, violence and any acts as they tame inhuman and immoral practices in schools. Dr Michael assured the whistle blowers of confidentiality as the ministry   takes prompt action for students’ protection at all levels. “People should report  any misconduct on the violation of rules, regulations, guidelines  including sexual corruption and all forms of violence in primary, secondary and institutions and immoral acts ” he insisted. The public has been advised to use the numbers during working hours from 8.00 am to 4.00 pm as the ministry says it is determined to tackle forms of abuse and violence in the education system.