AS Chama Cha Mapinduzi’s 46th anniversary celebrations reach climax today, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said that the sixth phase government has recorded success in executing the 2020-2025 party’s election manifesto. The PM said that the government has fully implemented the flagship projects as stated in the party’s manifesto for people’s and the country’s development. The Premier made the remarks on Saturday during the celebrations of   the party’s 46th anniversary at regional level in Kigoma. Majaliwa, who is CCM Central Committee member, said that the party must be proud of the successful implementation of the plans it has laid out in its manifesto. The Premier therefore directed all councils in the country and heads of department to use the manifesto when planning and executing various programmes because the document serves as guidance in implementation of government activities in their respective areas. Speaking on strategic projects, Majaliwa who is CCM Kigoma regional patron, said the government has been dishing out huge sums of money for execution of the projects which have brought economic development, spurring the country’s development. In a related development, Majaliwa directed District Commissioners and District Executive Directors to properly allocate traders in areas where they will conduct their businesses effectively. He said  the government will continue to  improve business environment  including  enabling entrepreneurs to access  loans provided by the councils and financial institutions such as banks at an interest rate which is affordable. Majaliwa stressed the need for councils to widen revenue base to enable the government to finance various development projects. Earlier, CCM   Kigoma Regional Chairman Jamali Tamim told the Prime Minister that they   commend the government for the great job it is doing   by implementing various projects which are beneficial to the people and the country in general. He said as party leaders,  they will continue  to oversee the  activities  by the  government  to ensure it  provides important services  to the people which have been stipulated in the  party’s manifesto. He noted that Kigoma Region was previously lagging behind in development but to date it has made tremendous strides worth to be emulated. CCM NEC member for Kigoma Region, Mr Abdulkadir Mushi called upon Mr Majaliwa to work on party divisions in the region after the intra party elections held last year. Mushi said that sometimes those who unsuccessfully contested for various posts were being discriminated and seen as traitors. In another development, CCM Ideology and Publicity Secretary Sophia Mjema said that members are proud of achievements recorded in various sectors in 46 years of CCM. Mjema made the remarks in Ngerengere Village in Morogoro Region where she is accompanying the party’s Secretary General Daniel Chongolo in his tour to inspect implementation of the CCM’s 2020-2025 manifesto. “Tomorrow our party turns 46, we should turn up in large numbers to public rally venues and be proud of the success recorded in various sectors among others, education and health,” Mjema said. She said CCM will continue to improve the livelihood of the people, noting that the success recorded in 46 years of CCM must be known to the public.