TANZANIAN athletes stamped authority in the 21st edition of the Kilimanjaro International Marathon, after doing well in all the men and women’s categories of the grand run. In the event which was held yesterday, in Moshi, within Kilimanjaro region saw Tanzanian Aloyce Simbu  taking silver in the men’s 42 km full marathon after clocking  2 hours:18 minutes and 29 seconds, behind the Kenyan Kenneth Kiprop Omulo who won gold medal after clocking 2 hours:18 minutes and 05 minutes. The third spot was won by Abraham Kosgei from Kenya who clocked 2:19:30, while the other winners and places they held in the brackets were Paul Damian, Tanzania (4th), Rashid Muna, Tanzania (5th), Amos Kirwa Tanzania, (6th), Bernard Kigen, Tanzania (7th), Khamis Athuman, Tanzania (8th), Benson Kosgei, Kenya (9th) and Marcel Sarwat of Tanzania (10th). In the women’s category, Tanzanian athletes won the first three places whereby Sarah Ramadhan took gold after spending 3:02:36, ahead of Neema Sanka who took silver in 3:20:05. The third place was taken by another Tanzanian Visa Mhalwa who spent 3:25:14. Other winners in the top- ten list were Jane Mathenge of Kenya, (4th), Rebecca Nakuwa, Tanzania (5th), Immaculate Wanjiku, Kenya (6th), Mary Atto, Kenya (7th), Claire Baker, Kenya (8th), Justina Kilumelume, Zambia (9th) and Patricia Mabena, Tanzania (10th). In the men’s category of the Tigo-backed 21km half marathon, Tanzanian Emmanuel Giniki won gold after spending 1:00:36. The second place was taken by Josephat Gisemo who clocked  1:05:12 followed closely by Decta Teziforce who clocked 1:05:43 to claim the third place. In his speech after the competition, the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism Mohamed Mchengerwa congratulated the winners of the race whereby he said their success reflected the good preparations they made before their participation. “Your victory is a challenge for others to prepare well next year so that they can do well; for your parts, the achievements will give you the motivation to do more so as to defend what you achieved this year,” he said. In a speech read on his behalf by the Ministry’s Deputy Minister Mary Masanja, Mchengerwa said that the Government will continue to cooperate with the coordinators and other stakeholders of the race to ensure it continues to exist due to its importance to the Nation. “This annual event is very important for our country due to the fact that, apart from improving sports and new talents in the country, it also contributes significantly to the growth of the tourism sector in this country”, he said. “Due to the fact that this competition attracts people from more than 50 countries around the world, it is very important in promoting the tourism attractions found in the country which include Mount Kilimanjaro, as well as promoting tourism in Zanzibar by promoting the attractions found in the island”, he said. In addition, Minister Mchengerwa thanked the organisers and sponsors of the famous race in Africa for the way they cooperated with him when he was the Minister for Culture and Sports, whereby he said he continues to see the importance of this unique event in the tourism docket that he had started serving recently. “Congratulations; I have been informed that this is the 21st race since the inception of this famous race; we as the government are proud of this event that flies the flag of our nation not only in sports, but even in the tourism sector, because right now everyone in the world is talking about sports tourism in Tanzania through the Kilimanjaro International Marathon which is an excellent example of an international event that is recognised, remembered and awaited every year “. Minister Mchengerwa also extended his gratitude to all other sponsors of the event led by the main sponsors Kilimanjaro Premium Lager whom he said was the main pillar in the event’s sponsorship for 21 years. In addition, he congratulated other sponsors which he said included the Tigo company the main sponsors of the 21 Km race and Grand Malt the sponsors of the 5 Km race popularly known as Fun Run as well as other sponsors which he said included TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, Kilimanjaro Water, TotalEnergies and official service providers including Surveyed Plots Company Limited (SPC), GardaWorld Security, Keys Hotel, Kibo Palace Hotel and CMC Automobiles and Salsalinero.