MEMBER of the CCM’s National Executive Committee (NEC), Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, has asked party’s members and Tanzanians in general to continue trusting their government, whose executives are well organised to serve them efficiently and honestly. The Premier made the statement on Sunday at an event to mark the climax of celebrations for the 46th CCM anniversary at regional level in Biharamulo District, Kagera Region. Mr Majaliwa said that President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan, the party’s National Chairperson, has made a number of improvements in different sectors, including investments with a view to boosting individual and country’s economy. He said the government has improved investment climate to attract more investors to the mining, agriculture and industrial sector. The move is part of government’s strategies to address unemployment challenge, especially to the youth. “President Dr Samia has focused on resolving unemployment challenge in the country by expanding scope of investment and inviting investors to invest in the country. More investments in agriculture and industries are the answer to the unemployment,” he argued. At this juncture, he told executives in district councils to ensure the youth are given pieces of land for agriculture and also given priority in loan issuance from 10 per cent of the council’s own revenues. Speaking about public workers’ welfare, Prime Minister pointed out that the CCM had instructed the government to effectively supervise civil servants’ welfare including paying their overdue arrears and promotions, hence urged the workers to trust their government. He also used the platform to thank Tanzanians for supporting the ruling party in the implementation of its 2020 Election Manifesto which has highlighted various development matters currently undertaken countrywide. On his part, Biharamulo lawmaker Eng Ezra Chiwelesa acknowledged the six-phase government for endorsing large amount of money which is used in the implementation of various development projects, including allocation of 1.8bn/- for construction of 91 classrooms for secondary schools in his constituency.