RESIDENTS of Uzini-Mishomarini in Unguja South Region have expressed their gratitude to Asma Mwinyi Foundation (AMF) for connecting them to reliable water supply after successful drilling and construction of a borehole. Mr Hassan Ali Mohamed, a community leader of the Uzini area (Shehia), where the project has been implemented, joined his fellow residents to celebrate the good news of accessing safe and clear water after experiencing prolonged shortage of the precious liquid. “We are very happy with the support from the foundation. This will bring to an end the problem    people in the area have been facing for a long time,” he explained. Ms Mashavu Haji Makame and Mr Saleh Mbarouk, among the beneficiaries, said worshippers at the Mishomarini Masjid (Mosque) and more than 300 households will easily access water pumped from the borehole to the 5,000-litre water tank storage before supplying to the masjid and to other beneficiaries. Ms Asma Ali Mwinyi- Director of AMF said the construction of water wells and the drilling of boreholes is among the foundation’s activities since its establishment in 2019. “We are determined to support projects that are linked to the development of women and children,” she said. She said that there are many villages that have applied for the support to drill boreholes and construction of water wells in efforts to address the challenge of water shortage. She also said that the foundation is backing up the government’s plan to bring development to the people. “The foundation has been working tirelessly to solicit funds to enable it to support various villagers in setting up water projects,” she said. Ms Asma explained that the establishment of the organisation focuses on uplifting the living standard of communities, primarily targeting sectors of education, health, and social programmes that are considered to be key for community development. Retired President Mzee Ali Hassan Mwinyi is one of the founders of AMF, the establishment which is strongly rooted in promoting programmes that enhance community development in both rural and urban settings, dealing specifically with girls and women’s needs of education, health, social issues, and other basic needs in their community.