THE government has said it will not hesitate to take legal action against employers in the central and local governments who oppress public servants. Deputy Minister in the President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Deogratius Ndejembi, issued a stern warning to the employers who fail short of addressing challenges faced by public servants and those who do observe laws and procedures governing public services. Mr Ndejembi made the stance on Wednesday during his visit to Njombe District Council in Njombe Region to assess the progress of projects funded by the United Nations Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). He said that those who oppress public servants are unfair to servants, the ministry and President Samia Suluhu Hassan who cares for employees by improving their welfare. “Those who oppress public servants, please do justice, President Samia Suluhu Hassan is always concerned with public servants’ affairs, such as improving their working environment,” said Ndejembi, warning the employers not to let down the president. In addition, Ndejembi handed over 12 motorbikes donated by the government to Ward officials in the council while asking public servants to use the motorcycles to serve citizens and not their own interests. “First of all, I would like to congratulate Njombe District Council for supporting President Samia Suluhu Hassan, she has brought six motorcycles and you as a council supported her with your own income and bought six other motorcycles for our council executives. This example of Njombe DC should be emulated by other councils. “For you executives who are given these working tools, we expect to see excellent services, we don’t expect to see these government resources being used as bodaboda or poorly maintained. Take good care of them so that they can do the work intended by the government,” said Ndejembi. Njombe District Commissioner, Kissa Kasongwa, said through a project funded by the United Nations Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the district received more than 1bn/- to facilitate various projects.