THE Mining Sector in the country has continued to flourish, as mineral trading centres contributed 41.32bn/- to the government coffers. Mining Commission Executive Secretary, Engineer Yahya Samamba said that between October and December last year, 42 mineral markets and 84 mineral purchasing centres contributed the amount of money through royalties and inspection fees. Engineer Samamba revealed that in Dodoma on Monday during a meeting organised by the commission aimed at receiving and discussing an implementation report of the commission activities in a period between October and December last year. He said the secret behind the good performance of the mineral markets and purchasing centres is the good management done by the commission staff in collaboration with other government institutions. Eng Samamba further explained that in a period between July and December last year  the commission collected  a total of 350.7bn/- equivalent to 42 per cent  of the target  of collecting 822bn/-. He said the commission was still proceeding with setting up strategies of collecting revenues in order for the government to attain its collection target come July this year. In a related development, the commission has continued to address various challenges in research, mining, smelting and mineral trading through various visits done by senior leaders of the commission and provision of education on health, safety and environmental protection in mining sites. Speaking during the meeting, Commission Chairman Prof Idris Kikula called upon resident mining officers to continue cooperating with Regional Commissioners, District Commissioners and other government institutions in managing the minerals. Prof Kikula urged miners in the country to observe mining laws and regulations in order to avoid conflicts which may arise in mining activities. “It is important for miners to follow the mining law and regulations to avoid conflicts that may arise in mining activities,” he said. The session involved mining commissioners including Permanent Secretary Ministry of Defense and National Service   Dr Faraji Myepe. Others are Permanent Secretaries   in the  Ministry of Land, Housing and Development, Dr Allan Kijazi, and the  Office of the President, Regional Administrations and Local Governments, Professor Livelihood Shemdoe. Others are the Deputy Attorney General, Dr Evaristo Longopa, Chief Executive of the Federation of Tanzania Miners Associations (FEMATA) Haroun Kinega. Budget Commissioner from the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr Meshack Anyingisye who represented the Permanent Secretary Dr Natu Mwamba, Mining Commissioner Janet Lekashingo, Mining Commission Chairman Prof Idris Kikula and his management.