MWANZA basketball giants; Bugando Planet, Spiders, and Kings stamped massive wins in the  Dundaswish Rock City Basketball tournament that rages on in Mwanza  courts. The trio won their openers in the event that has so far attracted ten Mwanza-based teams. Tournament’s Chairman Frank Matalange told the ‘Sunday News’  from Mwanza yesterday that the event is going on well as it reaches its  third round. He said the defending champions Planet are commanding the league’s helm with a superior goal difference after three impressive wins. In-form Planet recorded a  97-60 victory over the Outsiders, then they beat Eagles 95-79 before beating Bandari Mwanza  80-72 to  accumulate 6 points. According to Matalange, Spiders who are placed second in the standings, have also collected 6 points after beating Young Profile  77-58, then  humiliated SAUT  99-36 before seeing off CIC with an 89-51 victory. Another unbeaten team with 6 points, is Kings who beat the Outsiders 74-61 and defeated Dunda Sharks 62-53, and ended with a 63-58 victory over SAUT. Eagles won 2 games and lost one at fourth place according to the standings. Bandari Mwanza are fifth after collecting 5 points. Young Profile are placed sixth with a single win after playing three matches like the seventh-placed Outsiders has 4 points. Dunda Sharks, SAUT, and CIC are three teams that have yet to record a victory with 3 points each in the tournament that commenced in January this year. Matalange stressed that all is going well so far and that competition is very stiff. “It is a tough tournament, all teams are very good. We expect to see a lot  as the tournament gains its momentum,” he said. Matalange complimented participating teams and extended gratitude to sponsors and individuals who facilitated the success of the tournament. “I want to thank our sponsors including Dundaswish Investments, Beichee Outfit, Pombeland, Mambo Basketball, MNM Laundry Services, Dazzo Company, and individuals sports well-wishers who supported us in organising the tournament,” he said.