VICE President Philip Mpango has urged the newly appointed Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports, Ambassador Pindi Chana, to administer her new ministry well, for it is a vital docket in the nation and employs many youths. The Vice President made the remarks during the swearing-in of Ambassador Pindi and her new Permanent Secretary, Said Yakub, at the State House in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. President Samia Suluhu Hassan made the minor cabinet reshuffle on Tuesday by transferring the Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports, Mohamed Mchengerwa to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. Mchengerwa is taking over from Minister Ambassador Pindi Chana, who has been transferred to Culture, Arts and Sports docket. During the swearing  ceremony, the Vice President noted, “The Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports is one of the most crucial ministries in the country, as according to statistics, it is the fastest growing sector in the country and employs most of the youth in the country.” He further tasked the new Minister to ensure coordination between her and her subordinates. A statement released yesterday by the Directorate of Presidential Communications said that the president has also transferred Hassan Abbasi, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports, to serve in the same capacity in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. Abbasi replaces Eliamani Sedoyeka. President Samia appointed Said Yakub to replace Abbasi to serve in the docket. Before the appointment, Yakub was Deputy Permanent Secretary in the same Ministry. Befoe the appointment, the outgone Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Mchengerwa and Abbasi received twelve acres of land from the National Housing Corporation (NHC) located in Kawe, Dar es Salaam for the construction of a modern ultra-sports arena. The arena will have a capacity of 16,000 to 20,000 spectators. During the occasion, Mchengerwa revealed the arena ought to offer an opportunity for more youth to participate in sports and improve their talent. “We expect the arena to accommodate 16,000 to 20,000 spectators. Also, the theatre will host various national, continental and global concerts, “noted Mchengerwa.  