REVOLUTION in farming is heading into success in Mwanza region following empowerment to agricultural extension officers by providing them with 290 motorcycles to spearhead farming. Food security is one of the most great challenges we face in the world today, feeding the world requires collective action, and farmers are closest to the solution. To enable farmers to produce profitably, can ensure abundance of food in the world’s growing population and this is possible if we enable more ability to farmers by empowering them with resources. Some steps like giving them fixed package of services to farmers like giving groups of farmers seed and planting supplies on credit, making farmers to learn planting best practices from a field officer are some of recommended solutions. Farmers are supposed to be given services in credit and repay slowly over the full growing season. Recently Mwanza Region began to distribute 290 motorcycles to agricultural extension officers to enable them reach to their farmers so as give them services to increase their production. Geita Regional Commissioner Mr Martin Shigela handed 290 motorcycles to agricultural extension officers in Mwanza Region on behalf of Mwanza RC in the city telling them that they have the role to ensure that they bring changes in the agriculture sector in their places. He said that the government wants to ensure the sector is empowered and turned into an agricultural economy able to contribute 10 per cent of the national economy in the year 2030. Mr Shigela said that some steps have been taken mentioning that the ministry of agriculture began capacity building in the section of empowering human skills with knowledge to bring agricultural changes in their places of supervision. He asked agricultural extension officers to reach all farmers in their places to give them counsels so that they can get more yields in their farms and to keep motorcycles properly so that they can function for longer time. Mwanza Regional Administrative Secretary Mr Balandya Elkana said that it is the role of the government to ensure that the nation becomes able to get satisfaction and security of food that is why the government has invested in provision of transport to extension officers in the area. He said that the region has 269 extension officers therefore provision of motorcycles in the city will make all district councils distribute to extension staff to enable them function well. Mr Elkana asked district councils to ensure they support them with fuels for the operation of motorcycles so that they can manage to reach farmers in different places. National Executive Committee (NEC) member from Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) in Mwanza Region Mr Jamal Babu said the party praises Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan for her willingness to support the agricultural sector. “We have heard that now fertilisers valued 140,000/- have been reduced to 70,000/- this is dedication of the government to revamp agriculture in our nation,” said Mr Babu. He said the support will enable a positive revolution in the agricultural sector at the time when environmental changes continue to bring different challenges in the community. Mwanza Assistant Regional Administrative Secretary ( Economy and Production), Mr Emil Kasagara said that there is big challenge of availability of rainfall in many places therefore provision of motorcycles to extension officers will enable them to advise farmers on trend of rainfall through informations released by Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA). He told them that farmers should be encouraged to grow crops which withstand droughts like cassava, millet and sweet potatoes and cotton in their places to enable them to grow more crops. Mr Kasagara praised sixth phase government under President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan for steps taken to resolve the challenge of transport to extension officers therefore he stressed for them to bring changes in their places. The government has put in place plans and strategies to transform agriculture in the next 60 years. These are in line with the Sustainable Development Goals-2030, National Development Vision-2025, and the Third Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP-III 2021-2025). To actualise these plans, the government has put in place various programmes including Agriculture Sector Development Programme (ASDP-II: 2017-2028). In the next 60 years, the government wants to see agricultural sector that is modernised, with high productivity, commercialised. The government wants agriculture to ensure Tanzania’s food security and nutrition and increased contribution of agriculture in the national income. In the 2021-2081 period the government also wants; to increase productivity in strategic crops. These crops include food and commercial crops, horticultural crops and oilseeds. Irrigation will be given a priority and farmers in irrigation schemes will be incentivised by being given fertilisers, improved seeds, extension services, farming machinery, and education on better land and water uses. The government also plans to improve markets for agricultural products to increase incomes for smallholders. To do this the government will improve inspection of quality and sanitary conditions of Tanzania’s crops and will improve the capacity of Tanzania Plant Health and Pesticide Authority (TPHPA) to enable it issue nationally recognised certifications. The govt will also build Strategic Border Markets and Commodity Exchanges to improve markets for Tanzania’s agricultural produce. Traders now want more flexibility to buy farm products individually, without working in a group. They want to buy products all year round, not just at the main planting time. They are interested in growing more profitable commercial crops to sell, in addition to staples like maize and beans, and investing in assets like trees, which grow in value over time. Government is listening to what farmers need and they are designing programmes around them. They are also rolling out new products and services to create more impact and value for farmers. Tanzania is now responding to different market needs and tailoring our country operations to give farmers more options about when they can sign-up and which products and services they require. The government is increasing agroforestry to help build farmer assets, improve the environment, and sequester carbon in the soil to accelerate the work around carbon credits, which provide a source of revenue for environmentally responsible and impactful projects like tree planting. Steps such as creating new channels to increase farmers’ access to products and training for example, scaling both retail shops and digital services, including USSD farmers enrolment and virtual training by chatbot and WhatsApp to enable farmers to access important information virtually. Also they are developing an app to connect farmers directly to products such as seeds, fertiliser, and pesticides, markets for their crops, and planting advice. Traditional model of providing farmers products on credit for the main planting season each year has been successful, but in order to do better provision of motorcycles is likely to improve the situation.