AFTER introducing ‘Visit Tanzania’ kit for the CAF Champions League mission, the government through Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) has hailed Simba for the positive gesture. The Msimbazi Street Reds unveiled new pairs of jerseys at a function held in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday evening and once again, they have joined the race to promote the country’s tourism through sports. To accomplish this, Simba are going to put on kits branded with ‘Visit Tanzania’ slogan at the front part throughout their Champions League assignment in both home and away duels. In his remarks at the event, TTB representative Bernard Mtatiro said what Simba did will play a crucial part in facilitating tourism growth both within and outside the country. “The use of sports is one of the products we have in promoting tourism as such; what we are doing here is very important bearing the fact that the tourism sector attracts more foreign revenues. “Also, this sector employs many people and with this drive, we highly appreciate this good gesture by Simba as they are putting the interest of the nation first, hence we pledge to be with them along the way,” he said. On his part, Simba Chairman Murtaza Mangungu seized the platform to commend their main sponsor M-Bet for accepting to be replaced by other sponsors during the international matches. “This is a good gesture because they have understood the requirements of CAF who does not entertain betting sponsors in the group stage of their competitions,” he said. Earlier, M-Bet Marketing Manager Allen Mushi said they have given the club all blessings to have another sponsor for the champions’ league games. “As one way to enhance patriotism, we have accepted the front part of the jersey to bear the words ‘Visit Tanzania’ because we are helping to promote our own country in propelling tourism industry,” Mushi remarked. owever, according to Simba’s Media and Communication Manager Ahmed Ally, the new kit will be sold at 35,000/-H per piece from February 15th this year. The Msimbazi Street Reds face Horoya of Guinea in their first group-stage match of the Champions League in Conakry this Saturday. 