EFFORTS by the government to rescue more Tanzanians from abject poverty continue to bear fruits through Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF). Speaking in Njombe Region recently, some of the beneficiaries of the TASAF programme which aims to enable poor households to increase their incomes and opportunities while improving consumption, hailed the government for managing to change their lives. One of the beneficiaries, Ms Veronica Mtiwele, a resident of Igagala village, Ulembwe Ward in Njombe Region said that before joining the programme, she was living in poor conditions, but now she is living in modern house after being involved in the programme. She said that apart from the programme enabling her to educate her children; she is now a proud owner of more than 20 avocado trees, which she says have helped her financially. Another beneficiary, Mr Alfred Mwalongo said that apart from being able to send his children to school through the programme, he currently has more than 30 fertile avocado trees, some of which will start being harvested soon. He thanked TASAF and the government for the initiative, saying that he would still be languishing in poverty had it not been for the programme. Ms Zuhura Mdungi, the TASAF Communication Specialist said that some of the beneficiaries of the programme which started in Igagala village since 2015 are required to graduate to pave way for more beneficiaries. She noted that the role of TASAF is to empower poor households to graduate out of poverty and have sustainable social and economic development, after which more beneficiaries will be added. She told the beneficiaries that graduating from the programme is a positive thing because it shows that their living standards have improved significantly. “Identifying those who qualify to graduate will be done gradually, which means that there are a few who will continue benefiting from the programme while others pave way for other beneficiaries,” she said. Mr Isidory Sambura, the Igagala Village Executive Officer (VEO) said that the TASAF programme is benefiting 80 villagers since 2015, but now he is confident that almost more than 60 per cent are ready to graduate. “Some of these people were living in very poor conditions, but I can confidently say that most of them are now in a better financial position and can now stand on their own,” he said. The VEO said that apart from assisting the 80 beneficiaries, Tasaf also constructed two classrooms, staff room and 6 pit latrines for girls at the Igagala Primary School, while plans are afoot to construct a modern health centre at the village. TASAF was established in 2000 as part of the Government of Tanzania’s strategy to reduce poverty. The main objective of TASAF II is to empower communities to access opportunities so that they can request, implement and monitor sub-projects that contribute to improved livelihoods that are linked to indicator targets of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as stipulated in the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty, popularly known by its Kiswahili acronym MKUKUTA.