THE Ministry of Culture, Arts, and Sports has called for investment from local and foreign investors with the aim to develop the culture, arts, and sports sectors. The call comes after the Minister for Culture, Arts, and Sports Pindi Chana witnessed the memorandum of understanding between the Investor of Tan Worrios Sports Academy, Mainga Kataila, and Investor Riccardo Giacomo from the Italy embassy in Dar es Salaam. The event was attended by the Italian Ambassador in Tanzania, Ambassador Mahmoud Thabit Kombo, Sports Development Department Acting Director, Ally Mayay, and National Sports Council (NSC) Executive Secretary, Neema Msitha. As the Minister witnessed the signing memorandum of understanding of the event, she assured the investors that Tanzania under the leadership of President Samia is a peaceful country with an excellent investment environment. “The sixth leadership under President Samia aims to empower youths by creating a sustainable environment for them to develop their talents,” noted Chana. The Docket Minister noted that the Tan Worrios sports academy is private ownership; therefore through the academy, young people will acquire employment opportunities as the National and Housing Population Census 2022 statistics show that 50 per cent are youths. She added that private and public ownership is allowed and the government will provide land for the construction of the academies and give permissions as it aims to develop the sports sector and increase the country’s economy. Moreover, she added that the memorandum of understanding signed has also continued creating good relations between Tanzania and Italy. Italy has been a country in which the sports sector has developed including a football game. Therefore the relations that continue to be built by the two countries will also aim to cooperate in training coaches and players from various teams, promoting Tanzanian tourism as well as creating more sports academies. On his part, the Italian Ambassador, Marco Lombardi said they will continue to cooperate with Tanzania in various sectors including culture, arts, and sports. The Tan Worrios Sports Academy Director, Mainga Kalaita said the Institute is located in the Morogoro region and develops soccer talents from the age of 5 to 22 years. He hopes the academy to increase the number of young people.