YOUNG Africans are set to battle for victory as they lock horns with TP Mazembe in a thrilling CAF Confederation Cup group D match at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The hosts are facing a must-pass test in order to revamp their hopes of reaching the last eight stage of the competition hence today’s victory is crucial to them. This has been fuelled after suffering a 2-0 loss to US Monastir in their group stage’s opening match in Tunis, the capital city of Tunisia last Sunday. On the other hand, TP Mazembe are also searching to stamp a second consecutive win after defeating Malian side De Bamako 3-1 in their group’s opening game last weekend. Again, a draw will be a good outcome for the DR Congo side as they will have 4 points to continue cementing their chances of going further in the competition. In a pre-match briefing yesterday, Yanga coach Nasreddine Nabi said they have sorted out all the setbacks which emerged during their past match against Monastir. “We committed mistakes and I am happy to let you know that we have worked on them…let me apologise to Yanga fans because it is not the results they wanted basing on the nature of the prevailing squad,” Nabi said. About who are set to miss the game, he disclosed that Bernard Morrison is still injured and hence will not be part of the big match while Salum Abubakar ‘Sure Boy’ has been permitted to attend to family issues as his child is undergoing surgery. He also revealed that playmaker Stephanie Aziz Ki is a doubt as he missed two training sessions due to personal problems hence a decision whether to start him or not was to be made after yesterday’s last training programme. In a separate interview, TP Mazembe midfielder Mukoko Tonombe said they are well prepared for the match and that their training sessions in the country have been executed without any problems. “At this stage, each competing team deserves credit because they qualified to be here including Yanga. We are therefore playing against a good team with full backing from their home supporters,” the former Yanga player said. However, after today’s encounter, the Jangwani street giants turn their focus to the Premier League as they take on KMC at the same venue on Tuesday before travelling to Mali to play De Bamako. It will be a last match to wind up the league’s 23rd round of which Yanga sit on top of the pile with 59 points from 22 matches hence a triumph over the Kinondoni-based side will drive them to 62 points.