President Samia Suluhu Hassan has tasked the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Attorney General (AG), to seek best ways to review all the laws that act as an obstacle in dispensation of justice in the country. The Head of State pointed out that many proceedings especially regarding economic, finance and taxes take a long time to be completed. She issued the directives at the climax of the Law Day commemorations held at Chinangali Park grounds in Dodoma on Wednesday and urged the authorities to throw weight behind arbitration. The Law Day marking, signals the beginning of a new judicial calendar year. As judicial services start officially today, President Samia wanted the legal sector actors to make sure the staff undergo training on dispute resolution. President Samia said that the country is built on the basis of justice which maintains peace that can exist or disappear if the disputes brought to the courts cannot be resolved quickly. “The breach of peace often happens when there is no justice and if the justice is lost, peace becomes non-existent, I urge the authorities to do their best in making sure that justice is received early so that the peace of the country can be preserved and advanced,” she said. She said that the government is now enhancing the access to justice to the citizens by reviewing the existing systems. “The government’s intention is to see that the case in the police is read in the same way by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and it also goes to the court as the first case and as the evidence, no need of twisting, we will do our best to achieve this,” she insisted. In his welcoming remarks, Chief Justice Prof Juma thanked the government for facilitating the implementation of getting artificial intelligence technology that will be competent in answering questions and translating languages as per the demands of the people seeking judicial services. “We have made a very good step and we have managed to get software from Italy that will help us a lot, we will be able to use any language, the judges will not need to write, will be listening and then choose which language they want. 