CONSTRUCTION of 32-kilometre tarmac road, costing 138.7bn/- , on the Tanzania-Zambia Highway from Nsalaga (Uyole) to Songwe Airport will help to facilitate movement of people and goods within the East African Community (EAC) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries. Besides, the road is also an important link in the transportation of goods for countries including Malawi, Zambia and DR Congo to and from the Dar es Salaam Port. Minister for Works and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa, revealed this in Mbeya, on Tuesday during the contract signing for the construction of a four-lane road Lot 3 Nsagala-Ifisi 29km section which is part of Igawa-Uyole-Songwe-Tunduma (218Km). According to the Minister, initial uptake of the road had involved 29km Nsagala-Ifisi but when the President made a tour in the region the residents had requested for 3km extension from Nsalaga-Airport. “The road will relieve the residents among other people from transportation woes from heavy traffic jams…the road is part of an important road network within the country linking Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Iringa, Njombe, Mbeya and Songwe,” said Prof Mbarawa. Furthermore, the road will strengthen socio-economic activities including transportation of people and goods including food and cash crops, forest products and among other cargo. He noted that the project will create job opportunities for the residents of Mbeya as well as strengthen their economic activities. He noted that the road was also a critical linkage of the Trans Highway No 4 from Cape Town in South Africa to Cairo in Egypt. The Minister expressed government’s commitment to implement various road construction projects within Mbeya Region some of which are in different stages. Such projects include Katumbasongwe–Kasumulu–Ngana–Ileje (90.1Km), Katumba–Mbambo– Tukuyu (78.4Km) Lot 3, Katumba – Lupaso (35.3Km) and Mbaka – Kibanja (20.7Km), Isyonje – Kikondo – Makete (96.03Km) Mbalizi – Chang’ombe (50Km) and Mbalizi – Shigamba (52Km). On the other hand, the Speaker of the National Assembly, Dr Tulia Ackson, indicated that the construction of the roads will to a large extent help in the reduction of road accidents on the Mbalizi side, She asked the Minister to consider extending the project to Mlima Nyoka which is considered as among accident blackspots. Giving a brief on the project, Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Eng Rogatus Mativila, outlined that the tender of the project was advertised from June 7 to October 20, last year. “A total of eight tenders were assessed whereby the contractor China Henan International Cooperation Group Co. Ltd (CHICO) from China won,” indicated Eng Mativila. He added that the implementation of the project will take about 24 months at the value of worth over 138.7bn/- and the VAT of about 25bn/-.