The Tanzania Human Rights Defenders Coalition (THRDC) has recommended changing of names and functions of the Police Force and the Prison Services to suit the needs of properly addressing criminal justice systems in the country. THRDC proposes the changes as response to President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s 12-man committee and five secretariat members which are jointly investigating security forces and criminal justice in the country. “Human rights defenders are joining hand President Samia’s call by suggesting the name of the Police force as an institution should aim at providing services hence its name should be the Police Service of Tanzania. “Also Prison Services should be purely basing on correction activities of inmates so that they can be good citizens after serving their respective jail terms,” said Advocate Onesmo Ole Ngurumwa, a National Coordinator of THRDC The right defenders also proposes the power to arrest criminals or persons alleged to have committed offence should be left to the Police officers than by the executive leaders to the District Commissioner and Regional Commissioners since many cases triggers misuse of such laws and powers. The Human rights defenders also recommend that combating crimes should go in line with liaising between the Police Service and the community as a best way of dealing against such problem. “Other suggestions from Human rights defenders according to him are that there should be no arresting any accused person before investigation to speed up handling of cases in court. This should be to all offences including the serious ones. The appointment of senior officials to run security organs like Inspector General of Police, Commissioner General of Prison Services and others should be open, competitive and must be approved by the Parliament if they are to bring justice, according to the activist. Human rights defenders are optimistic that criminal justice and human rights are in tandem and to get rid of this, they advised that, there is a need of having knowledgeable judges and magistrates in the area of human rights for fair decision making processes. “We propose the development of the New Constituting that will outline the modern foundations and principles of the criminal justice system. Many of the recommendations on criminal justice institutions will require constitution review to affect them,” he hints. Another proposal tendered by Advocate Ngurumwa called for Criminal Justice institutions to have a clear policy on public and media communication and how they can share data and information with the media and the public. He said that this will allow media presence and coverage to all public cases.