WOMEN and girls in the country have been urged to embrace science and technology in supporting the nation’s drive for a digital economy. The plea was given during the International Day of Women and Girls held at the Jakaya Kikwete Convention Centre. Speaking during the exhibition, score of female students participating in the event insisted on women participation to promote equal access and participation of females in science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields. Ms Gloria Tibaijuka and Ms Halima Muhunzi from Kibaha Girls Secondary School who were overall winners in the Young Scientist Tanzania (YST2022) competition felt that there was a huge disparity between men and women, when it comes to knowledge on science and technology. They unanimously argued that such gap could be bridged only if women put more efforts and energy in acquiring the two disciplines. The duo who won through their research on impact of climate change and future Ruvu water supply, said girls should not shy away from science subjects so that they contribute to the national economic development. “Girls should be trained in science and technology to be able to support the country’s drive for a digital economy,” noted Ms Tibaijuka. On her part, Saida Muhunzi commented: “Since women are more than half of theTanzanian population, they have a strong influence to be game changers in pushing for the digital economy.” Shamilah Geofrey, a student at Arusha Science High school said girls should bridge the gap and venture into science fields since the technological changing patterns need scientists. They thanked the Young Scientists Tanzania (YST) for offering them opportunities to take part in a unique and innovative programme in Africa. YST is a comprehensive Science Outreach Programme covering all regions in Tanzania and organises attractive high profile Annual YST Exhibitions and competitions in which secondary school students showcase their researches. The Science Outreach Programme is an indigenous independent programme developed by YST to add value to the YST Exhibitions and in doing so, develops a much-needed Science Culture in Tanzania. The Science Outreach Programme is the key component of YST as it builds much needed scientific capacity among young secondary level students and their teachers. The programme augments the Tanzania National Five-Year Development Plan as published by the Ministry Of Finance And Planning and the African Union, Continental Education Strategy Plan (CESA 2015-2025). It plans to achieve this by strengthening the science and math curricula in youth training and by disseminating scientific knowledge and culture in society.