399 goals have been netted from 356 matches played in the Premier League with over seven games before the climax. However, the 23rd round of the league rages on with a solo fixture as Geita Gold host Ruvu Shooting at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita today. The two teams battle for maximum points knowing in advance that with seven games remaining before the season’s chapter is closed; no further drop of essential points should be entertained. Geita Gold remain glued to fifth place on the table with 31 points from 22 matches, just one point above sixth-placed Namungo who have collected 29 points from the same number of outings. On the other hand, things are  not well at Ruvu Shooting who keep on staggering after managing 17 points from 22 matches and are currently in the fifteenth slot, a point superior to the bottom-placed occupants, Polisi Tanzania. The action continues tomorrow with two games; Coastal Union face Mbeya City at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga before  Kagera Sugar take on Namungo at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera. On Sunday, Polisi Tanzania have a tough home fixture as they host Tanzania Prisons at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi in a single Premier League clash of the day. This is another opportunity for Mwinyi Zahera’s charges to try to claim three points, bearing in mind that time is running short for them to make ends meet as the relegation jaws are  waiting for prey. Then on Monday, all roads will lead to Benjamin Mkapa Stadium for Mzizima Derby as Simba go head to head against Azam in an epic encounter set to colour the 23rd round of the campaign. Aside from battling for maximum points, the Msimbazi Street Reds use this match as a chance to revenge the painful 1-0 setback they suffered when they met in the first round of the league at the same venue. Azam’s danger man Prince Dube made the difference on the day after scoring a priceless goal to necessitate his side grab maximum points on the day. Come Tuesday, the last fixture of the 23rd round sees KMC welcoming Young Africans at Benjamin Mkapa venue in the city, a tricky game for the current league leaders who target to defend the championship for the second time in a row.