PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has sent her condolences to families of 12 people who lost their lives in a road accident on Wednesday night at Silwa area along Dodoma-Morogoro highway and directed State organs to heighten supervision of road safety laws. Through her official twitter account, Dr Samia wrote; “I commiserate with all those who lost their loved ones in the road accident which occurred on the night of February 9, 2023, leading to deaths of 12 people. “May the Almighty God have mercy on them (the deceased). I hereby direct state organs to heighten supervision of road safety laws,” Ms Samia wrote on her account. According to Dodoma Regional Commissioner Ms Rosemary Senyamule 12 people died in the accident while 63 others were injured when the vehicle they were traveling in got involved in ahead on collision with a lorry in Kongwa District. The RC said of the deceased, four were women and eight men while the wounded included 40 men and 23 women. She said the accident occurred at Pandambili Ward in Kongwa District, when a passenger bus christened Frester with registration number T415 DPP which was heading to Dar es Salaam from Bukoba tried to overtake another vehicle and ended up colliding with a lorry with registration T 677 DVX. The wounded have been admitted at Kongwa District Hospital and Gairo Health Centre and two of them, who are in critical condition, were sent to Dodoma Regional Referral Hospital. Head of Operations and Training at the Police Force, Commissioner Awadh Haji said the source of the accident is speed and reckless driving. Ms Senyamule said the government had good intention to allow passenger buses to travel at night thus drivers must abide by traffic rules and regulations. “There are some drivers who don’t abide by traffic rules and as a result they cause accident and death to innocent people. “We will not hesitate to take stiff measures against such drivers,” RC Senyamule said. Earlier, the RC visited the injured and admitted at Kongwa and Gairo and prayed for their quick recovery. Medical Officer In charge at Dodoma Referral Hospital, Dr Ibenzi Ernest said they received 15 injured people As of yesterday evening, nine patients had undergone surgeries and their situation was improving. Latest report made available to the Daily News named 36 survivors who were  injured  as Ester Evaristo, Shadrack Elisha, Losina Efelian, Rehema Michael, Haulea Josephat, Akwilina Alois Dikonya, Haulea Florence and Daniel Godian. The list also include Riziki Mjuma, Justine Bashange, Alice Osward , Abdulkarim Syriana, Joseph Lutatiana, Abtwaha Nuru, Swamweli Tito, Anselimo Valence and Frank Christofa. Others are Makson Mbuku, Malicelina Markson, Rashid Ramadhan, Muhammed Luanga, Silidion Martin, Said Musa, Juma Abdallah, Samwel Kupaza, Sylvanus Levelian, Luemamu Evarist, Nabii Suleiman Kalist, Rasul Juma Zuberi, Yona Elisha, Clement John Mushi, Jamila Abangile, Samia Hamimu and Fatuma Rashid.