COCA-COLA foundation has released a grant valued at 23.3m/- to support over 30 women in the local recycling industry in Dar es Salaam. The grant awarded to the group through a local Tanzanian NGO namely Wezesha Binti na Mama Mjasiriamali will be used to purchase modern equipment and equip them with skills including entrepreneurship. A statement made available to the Daily News on Saturday specified the equipment as PET plastic baling machine, installations, machine technical and maintenance support, personal protective equipment and business and entrepreneurship training, to take their rightful place as equals in the economy. The project is expected to create green jobs and ensure that more than 100 plastic waste pickers in the city of Dar es Salaam record improved income and live decent lives. Speaking during the launch ceremony, WBM Executive Director Ms. Latifa Mohamed highlighted that “the program intends to empower women in the recycling industry by supporting them with equipment. The program will incorporate training at the beginning such as recycling business skills and financial literacy training. Ms Latifah added: “The equipment support will mean giving women who work in recycling the infrastructure they need to improve their efforts in pre-processing plastic, which will help them make more money and create good jobs in the plastic recycling value chain. Speaking on the grant, Ms Saadia Madsbjerg, President of The Coca-Cola Foundation said, “We are really proud of the opportunity to support circular economy efforts that empower the informal sector both large and small in Africa. I am hopeful that through this support, these women will someday themselves be able to create new jobs”. The Women in Recycling initiative will be run in Temeke, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The event was well attended by WBM staff, Coca-Cola representatives together with local bottler partner (Coca-Cola Kwanza Ltd a subsidiary of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa) staff, Temeke Municipal Council, Environment Department representatives, and members of the media.