LOCAL manufacturers have been urged to produce high quality finished products to be able to penetrate available opportunities in member states of the European Union (EU) market which has a population of over 400 million people. The call was made in Dar es Salaam on Friday by Minister of Investment, Industry and Trade, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, during a press conference ahead of the maiden EU-Tanzania Business Forum slated for February 23 and 24, this year. The EU-Tanzania Business Forum is geared to support Tanzania’s commitments in achieving sustainable economic growth and resilience, through increased investment and trade relations between Tanzania and member states of the EU. The opening of the forum will be graced by Vice-President, Dr Philip Mpango on February 23rd this year, while the Zanzibar President Dr Hussein Mwinyi is expected to officiate at its closing on February 24th this year. “The balance of trade between Tanzania and EU member countries has been in favour of the former since we export raw materials to the EU countries, which earn the country little earnings in forex. “It is high time that we started focusing on value addition by producing finished products to European countries to be able to benefit from the market through improved earnings in forex,” the minister urged. Latest figures for trade between Tanzania and EU member states for the year 2021 show that Tanzania exported goods worth 456 million Euros to the EU while imports stood at 856 million Euros. Tanzania’s exports to the EU include agricultural and livestock products in addition to minerals while imports from the former include medicines, machinery and aircrafts, among other finished products. According to Dr Kijaji, a number of Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) are expected to be signed between potential investors from the EU and their counterparts in Tanzania. The MoUs will focus mainly on energy, agriculture and mining. “It is our hope that the signed agreements will bring new investments which will create employment opportunities for Tanzanians and eventually boost the economy,” she observed. Over 600 participants are expected to attend the business forum which is expected to strengthen trade and investment relations between member countries of the EU and Tanzania. The EU’s Deputy Head of Delegation in Tanzania, Mr Emilio Rossetti, said the forum will also be attended by the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank (EIB), Mr Gelsomina Vigliotti. “We expect signing of agreements between the European Investment Bank and local financial institutions to extend credit facilities to Tanzanian entrepreneurs,” Mr Rosseti announced. Mr Rosseti elaborated that the EU- Tanzania Business Forum is part of the European Global Gateway strategy, which is a joint EU and member countries’ strategy with Africa, which is about building a more sustainable future for all. “Through the Global Gateway strategy the EU identifies how best to support the green and digital transitions in Africa, including in Tanzania. It is important to leverage the government’s efforts by increasing private sector investments in strategic sectors, for sustainable development. “Achieving Sustainable Developments Goals is improbable with only public funds, and this is why the private sector is at the heart of Global Gateway, the EU’s positive offer to boost investments globally,” he explained. The envoy noted as well that the forum will provide a high-level interaction between private sector, government and financial institutions from EU and Tanzania. For his part, the Deputy Head of Mission at the French Embassy in Tanzania, Mr Axel-David Guillon, said investors from his country will focus mainly on energy and transport sectors. “French investments in Tanzania have been increasing over the years, thanks to political stability and favourable environment for trade and investment in addition to abundance of natural resources,” he observed. Adding; “French companies run major projects in Tanzania and they are increasing their investments, creating thousands of jobs for Tanzanians. France is also very active through the French Development Agency (AFD), which is funding projects in many sectors”. According to the diplomat, some 25 companies from France will take part in the forum, including a delegation of between 50 and 60 investors from European countries. The Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Head of Business Solutions, Ms Kinanasy Seif, said some 250 Tanzanian businesspersons have confirmed participation for the forum.