THE eagerly awaited ‘MV Mwanza-Hapa Kazi Tu is set for launch tomorrow (Sunday) for final works, it has been revealed. The launching process involves transferring the ship from   the slipway to the water for final touches. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for Marine Services Company Limited (MSCL), Mr Eric Hamissi said on Thursday that the construction is now at 82 percent, with all machinery-related works being completed. The maiden ship has been described as the biggest vessel in the region’s shared Great Lakes of Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa. The remaining 18 percent involve final works including fixing navigation system, accommodation facilities such as chairs, beds, air condition as well as sailing board and painting. “Generally, the ship body has been completed; there are just final works to be completed. The launching of this ship …the launching is most important procedures of the entire ship construction process because it confirms the reliability of the works that have been already done, including detecting leakages, if any,” he said. He said   upon completion MV Mwanza will be handed over to MSCL later this year so that the company can set the trip schedule of the ship in Lake Victoria. The routes will be for all major ports in Lake Victoria, including Jinja and Port Bell (Uganda) as well as Kisumu in Kenya, said the CEO, affirming further that: Apart from local traditional routes, particularly Mwanza- Bukoba, MV Mwanza will be also go to Musoma in Mara Region, if the markets allow. The launching will be graced by Minister for Works and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa, other guests expected to take part in the launch includes Regional Commissioners from Lake Zone regions, said the CEO. Mr Hamissi called upon Mwanza residents to turn up in large numbers for the launching ceremony which he described it as the first ever event in Tanzania, which also involves the first largest ship in Great Lakes. He further expressed gratitude to the six-phase government for speeding up the construction of the ship. It was further noted that, about 109bn/- is set to be spent for the ship, whose construction is part of the implementation of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) election manifesto. The ship construction was 45 per cent when President Samia Suluhu Hassan took over the office in 2021, the CEO said noting that the government dished out huge sum of money for completion of the work.