WORLD Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Global Director, Dr Kirsten Schuijt has marvelled at the country’s beautiful landscape, likening it to a global heritage. The visiting WWF boss said here on Thursday that Tanzania’s landscape was of massive importance to the world, thanks to the wide range of species and natural resources found in it. “I’ve been awestruck with what I have seen here for the past two days, this landscape isn’t only important for the wildlife that live here, but it’s important globally,” explained Dr Schuijt when she toured Enduimet Wildlife Management Area in Longido District. The WWF boss said she was awestruck by the sheer number of natural resources found in Tanzania which compliments a global heritage. “They are important animals who live here, we have important tree species and we see communities depending on the environment for their survival, so this is a landscape that is only important for Tanzania but it’s important for everyone,” she said. Enduimet Wildlife Management Area lies in the most northern area of Tanzania. It is bordered with Kilimanjaro National Park on the South-East, while on the North; it borders the Tanzania-Kenya political boundary. Equally, Dr Schuijt disclosed that she was impressed with how the Wildlife Management Area served as a crucial place in sustaining and keeping other areas intact. In the same vein, the WWF Director General revealed that she chose Tanzania as her first place to visit on the continent after her appointment last month, for having also worked in the country over two decades ago. She further commended WWF Tanzania, through the Southern Kenya Northern Tanzania (SOKNOT) project, in its quest of working with communities in protecting and conserving natural resources. Dr Schuijt reiterated WWF’s commitment in supporting Tanzania’s drive of protecting its natural resources. Earlier on, the Longido District Administrative Secretary Kamana Juma Simba thanked the conservation agency for running and implementing a number of projects in the area. He assured the Swiss-based international non-governmental organisation of a continued government’s support in ensuring that local communities reap benefit from the projects. 