SIMBA and Vipers have crossed swords ready to go on the pitch and scramble for maximum points as they meet at St Mary’s Stadium in Kampala, Uganda today. The two teams play their third CAF Champions League group C game keen to stamp victory in order to increase their chances of reaching the last eight stage of the contest. The country’s envoys are eager to record the first win after enduring the win-less run in two encounters in their group thereby losing 6 points in the process and this is what forces them to win at any cost today. Simba coach Roberto Oliviera has already reiterated that his objective is to overpower the Ugandan side and return home with maximum points while admitting that it is a tough duel. “I know the team, they have good players who compete well on the pitch but we too have enough skilled players capable to fight for essential points from them and this is my objective,” he said at a pre-match briefing yesterday. The Brazilian tactician knows Vipers well having coached them before landing a lucrative deal at Msimbazi street giants where he is operating up to date and this is what makes the encounter interesting and competitive. Most people believe that this could be an advantage for the Msimbazi Street Reds to outclass their opponents though they continue to alert Simba players not to underrate Vipers as they too demand the first win of the campaign. They sit in third place in Group C with one point generated after managing a goalless home draw against Horoya in their previous assignment as such; any disappointing results from home territory will upset them. On his part, Vipers coach Roberto Pelliser disclosed that they have analysed Simba in their past two Champions League matches and are aware of their strengths and weaknesses. “Our target is to try our best to win the match and grab maximum points from our home venue. We want to take all 6 points from them,” Pelliser, who also originates from Brazil said. However, those tasked to fight for the team’s survival are Goalkeepers Aishi Manula, Beno Kakolanya and Ally Juma. Defenders: Erasto Nyoni, Shomari Kapombe, Israel Mwenda, Henock Inonga, Kennedy Juma, Gadiel Michael, Mohamed Hussein, Mohamed Ouattara and Joash Onyango. Midfielders: Clatous Chama, Peter Banda, Mzamiru Yassin, Sadio Kanoute, Saidi Ntibazonkiza, Ismael Sawadogo, Kibu Denis and Pape Sako. Strikers: John Bocco, Jean Beleke, Moses Phiri and Habib Kyombo who have been blessed to take the frontline in battling for the victory.