FOR the past two months, I outlined steps for accessing bank loans for entrepreneurs and businesses. I indicated that accessing the loans can be considered as a step-wise approach for a period of up three years, before actually attempting to seek a bank loan. After receiving the loan fund, there is another aspect of managing the funds. Unlike funds from business operations such as sales, loan funds are received in most cases in a lumpsum and for particular purposes. Some entrepreneurs may have little ability to manage funds arising from loans and treat the funds as income realised from other sources, which may be the same as sales. In so doing, they might find that the loan funds are utilised for purposes which were not intended for. This is because when a bank loans money, they don’t require a formal report on how the business uses it. The understanding of the bank is that the funds are utilised as per the business plan submitted to them. Another consideration is that the bank understands that the business can implement the project, manage the funds and drive the company based on their assessment and that the loan is all good. In this case, the loan meets all the criteria for a good loan. As a business venture, it is crucial to account for what the loan funds are used for and follow internal policies and procedures. If funds are not spent on time, the bank will recoup its repayment (principal + interest) with the borrowed money still unutilised. It is, thus, important to make all the preparations before the loan’s disbursement date to ensure that when the funds are disbursed, they are readily available to implement the activities intended for it. To avoid that, entrepreneurs must undertake the following: Hopefully, these tips will help you utilise loan funds to boost your business capital. Author: Dr Tobias Swai is a Senior Lecturer and Head of the Department of Finance at the University of Dar es Salaam, Business School. Email: tobias@udsm.ac.tz Telephone: +255 75 4300 495.