YOUNG Africans’ main sponsor, SportPesa said they are disappointed with the club’s decision to launch an alternative Jersey bearing the name of another sponsor. A statement released by SportPesa Tanzania Management on Wednesday morning indicated that the club has breached the contractual agreement. “SportPesa would like to inform its customers and the public that it is still the club’s main sponsor and has the exclusive rights to use the Front of the Shirt for every official kit of Yanga for the football years 2022-25. “Yanga’s request to get another sponsor for the next stage of the CAF competition was in breach of our agreements and was very disappointing when presented to us. “SportPesa is fully aware of CAF directives and rules regarding existing advertising and had used the ‘Visit Tanzania’ slogan for the replacement of our assets to be used in compliance of conditions required by CAF. “This ‘Visit Tanzania’ alternative campaign had successfully promoted the entire country for two previous CAF seasons but our proposal was rejected as the club had already decided to sell these rights regardless of the existing contractual terms with SportPesa. “SportPesa reserves its right to seek compensation and recourse from relevant authorities for the damages caused,” reads the paraded statement. Meanwhile, efforts by the ‘Daily News’ to seek the club’s management reaction through its Media and Communication Manager Ali Kamwe over the matter was unsuccessful as his mobile phone could not be answered. On Monday night in Dar es Salaam, Yanga unveiled new kits specifically for their CAF Confederation Cup mission bearing the name of Haier who pumped in a 1.5bn/- sponsorship package. However, in his speech, the club’s president Hersi Said insisted that SportPesa remains their main sponsor only that at this stage, CAF does not entertain betting firms in their contests hence the reason they brought in Haier. He then revealed that SportPesa conceded to let them have a new sponsor for the CAF duels and he projected that they expect to reap over 300m/- from the sale of the kit.