THE management of the East African Business Council (EABC) has made an appreciative call to the Rwandan Minister of State in-Charge of the East African Community (EAC), Mr Nshuti Manasseh for the goodwill in fostering trade. Mr John Bosco Kalisa, the EABC Chief Executive Officer, appreciated and congratulated the minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation (MINAFFET) for the move of opening the border to allow the business to flow. “We are appreciating the Rwandan government t for their political concern in fostering the trade with the opening of the borders that has eased the trade between the EAC countries,” CEO Kalisa said. He also urged the Rwandan Government to champion implementation of the EAC Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) by implementing a friendly environment for the EAC common market activities to penetrate. “Private sectors are ready to invest in the bloc but non-tariff barriers… unharmonized domestic taxes, high cost of air transport and telecommunication which limiting the business growth and expansion across the borders,” he said. In his address, Prof Manasseh said the government of Rwanda would provide a predictable and conducive business environment and promote partnerships to ease access to affordable finance for SMEs. “National policies should be at par, harmonize, and integrated for EAC Common Market to be accessible and friendly for businesses,” he said. He also called upon EABC to champion regional study on SMEs in order to support their growth and access to the EAC and continental market mentioning un-structured framework and information as barriers to SMEs and is supposed to be re-examined. “SMEs are vital in promoting economic growth but due to challenges, make it difficult to meet the production of quality and standard products,” he added. He also called upon corporate companies to nature SMEs and integrates them into their supply chains. Prof Manasseh urged EABC to back protectionist policies that set back intra-EAC trade and investment growth and full realization of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). EABC is steadfast to public-private dialogue and presents memoranda of private policy proposals to the EAC Council of Ministers in order to increase intra-EAC trade and investment and accelerate the market-driven regional integration process EABC is the regional highest body of private sector associations and Corporates from 7 East African countries. It was established in 1997 to foster the interests of the private sector in the integration process of the East African Community. EABC vision is a borderless East Africa for business and investment. The primary mission is to promote sustainable private sector-driven growth in the EAC.