SEVERAL regions in Lake and Northern Zones are expected to receive normal to below normal rains during the long rains commonly addressed as Masika season which starts next month, with the Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA) calling for measures to sustain food production. The authority has advised farmers in the areas to prepare their fields and use relevant farm inputs timely and use the best methods, technologies and right seeds. In addition, it recommended strengthening of the agricultural infrastructure, including rainwater harvesting and to control plant pests to reduce potential impacts. Issuing the Masika rains outlook for next March to May, TMA’s Acting Director General Dr Ladislaus Chang’a said based on the expected climate systems generally observed, normal to below normal rains are expected over most parts of Kagera, Geita, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Simiyu, Mara, Arusha, Manyara, Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions together with Pemba Island. “Normal to below normal rains may lead to insufficient soil moisture and water availability for agricultural activities,” Dr Chang’a stated. In the situation of below normal rains during the season, water and pasture availability for livestock and fishery activities are likely to be affected and thus leading to possible increase in wildlife migration which may in turn increase human wildlife conflicts and associated diseases transmission from wildlife to livestock. Therefore, livestock keepers are advised to practice good animal husbandry such as rotational grazing in order to conserve pasture and harvest rainwater for future use. The community is advised to put in place good plan for the use and conservation of water and animal feeds. However, during the season, some regions are expected to experience normal to above normal rains including Dar es Salaam, Coast (including Mafia Island), northern part of Morogoro Region and Unguja Island. In these areas, periods of excessive soil moisture may occur and affect the growth of some crops that do not need a lot of water, such as maize and leguminous crops, especially in the northern coast region. Dr Chang’a stated that in those areas livestock and fishery are likely to benefit from availability of pasture and food for fish, respectively. “Pastoralists and fishers in these areas are advised to seek weather forecasts as well as advisory from extension officers in order to capitalise on expected favorable conditions during the season,” headvised. There are also chances of potential occurrence of extreme weather events that is expected to affect transport infrastructure. “The extreme events may lead to damage of road and railways infrastructure and so resulting into increased number of accidents for land transport, delay and cancelation of flights, breakdown ofcommunication in air and maritime navigation, and increase of operational costs for aviation,” he explained. However, transportation sector especially land transport is expected to benefit from the weather condition in the areas anticipated to receive normal to below normal rains.