THE Automobile Association of Tanzania (AAT) has awarded the best drivers and navigators who excelled in last year’s National Rally Championship series. The Sports Acting Director, Ally Mayay graced the event on Friday in Dar es Salaam. Tufail Amin with 122 points was awarded as the overall winner, followed by Manveer Birdi who collected 107 points as the runner up while Harinder Deere who bagged 96 points claimed the third-position award. The best in navigation was Ravi Chana with 83 points who emerged as the overall winner while the runner-up title went to Manmeet Birdi with 81 points and the third overall was Dave Sihoka, from Zambia also with 81 points. Gurpal Sandhu and Dave Sihoka were awarded as the overall winners of the National Rally Championship (NRC 2). Sandhu hails from Arusha and usually races for the AESL Rally Team and his Navigator, Sihoka comes from Zambia. The winners of the National Rally Championship (NRC 3) are Tufail Amin and David Matete. Then come the youngsters; the Junior Champions winners were Prince Charles and Mohammed Kimenya. During the occasion, the NSC Acting Director, Mayay promised to cooperate with the organisers in developing motorsports in the country. He said the government under President Samia aims to develop the sector whereby about 700 acres of land are available in the Kigamboni District and 30 per cent of acres are reserved for sports. Therefore, he stated, it is the right time for the motorsports stakeholders to grasp the opportunities. Mayay has insisted the AAT creates awareness in society that will enable young people to join the competitions and become good competitors in the future. He concluded by saying through the National Rally Championship, motorsports can serve well the country’s tourism. On his part, AAT President Nizar Jivan said three years later, AAT expects to have up to 20 active clubs as for now there are only nine of them. Nizar has also commended the Ministry for being part of the award event which was attended by their representative. Amapiano Motor Sports club of Dar-es-salaam was awarded the best team as the best club event title went to Arusha Motor Sports Club. Tanzania expects to host the next National Rally Championship in mid-May this year as the season opener. It will be staged by Iringa Motor Sports Club.