RECENTLY, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa during a 120bn/- water project contract signing ceremony in Lindi Region was precise that the government will continue providing funds for the implementation of schemes in the country in line with the CCM’s 2020-2025 election manifestos. Right! As Tanzania seeks outside investment to build newer infrastructure in its ports and cities, the government is also investing in other development projects targeting education, energy and deforestation. Equally, investments in renewable energy and electrification will connect more Tanzanians to the grid and could help the country to reduce poverty and boost development beyond its impressive economic growth rate. The list might be long including the construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project and the World Bank’s Tanzania Rural Electrification Expansion Programme that envisions to connect 2.5 million poor Tanzanian households to the national electricity grid. In a nutshell, the major objectives of these projects are to enable Tanzanians as individuals or in their families and/or groups/associations to contribute more to the government goals of self-reliance and therefore bring about development at all levels and finally the nation as a whole. There are several benefits which come all the way in the country, when the government implements its community projects at the grassroots. This is because such mega projects bring with them many benefits not only to the country, but also to the public at large. And interestingly, reaping the benefits of such development initiatives does not wait until their completion. For instance, when a community development is effective, there is less crime, less disparity between citizens, better jobs available, a more talented workforce and less overall issues that impact residents. With the above background, it is the work of every citizen to try to ‘guard and own the projects’ and keep off vandalisms, which only back pedal development. As in the SGR, Tanzania expects it to link the country with neighbouring States of Rwanda, Uganda, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and this project will help in decreasing freight costs, say in the transportation of 10,000 tonnes, equivalent to 500 lorry-loads at ago will see minimising time and keeping off unwanted people in the freight system. Again, once operational, the Standard Gauge Railway will help Tanzania to maintain good relationship with its neighbours and reinforce the brotherly atmosphere required in the blocs. Economically Tanzania will benefit and increase its standards in economic growth and also see a lot of opportunities opening along the lines ranging from local employment, access to the market with locally produced goods and in turn towns spring up on the way. With these in mind, it is the duty of every citizen to support the government so that these projects materialise and meet their desired goals.