THE Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) has managed to generate more than 250 megawatts on the National Grid as part of short-term plans to face the challenge of electricity deficit. The statement was made yesterday in Dar es Salaam by TANESCO Director General (DG), Mr Maharage Chande, when addressing the Media about the state of electricity accessibility in the country. “As you will remember last year we had an electricity shortage of between 200 up to 300 megawatts. The company released a statement on plans in response to the deficit, including having short-term plans, medium and long ones,” Mr Chande said. According to him, the shortage of electricity emerged a few months ago due to the prevailing drought that led to a decrease of water level in hydro plants sources, maintenance of the plants that generate electricity and an increase in demand of electricity. Mr Chande highlighted short-term plans which have been completed and currently generating a total of 250 megawatts, including the completion of maintenance of one plant of Kinyerezi II Power Station that has already started generating 45 megawatts on the national grid from November 24, 2022. Also, he added that the company has already completed the maintenance of two plants at Ubungo Power Station Ill, which are generating between 35 and 40 megawatts to  the National Grid from November 25, 2022. “We have already completed the maintenance of one of the Kidatu facilities and it has already started to generate 50 MW on the national grid from November 30, 2022, and we have already completed the installation of the three existing plants at the Kinyerezi I Extension and injected 120 MW into the national grid,” TANESCO boss said. In the same line, Mr Chande mentioned medium-term plans that are taking place and are expected to be completed soon as including the tests of one existing plant in the Ubungo Power Station IlI, which is expected to be completed by the end of this month. “We also expect the last plant in Kinyerezi I Extension will start contributing 45 megawatts on the National Grid by the end of February 2023,” he added. Mr Chande said that despite the fact that electricity access has improved, the company has continued to witness a significant increase in electricity consumption from six to 11 per cent per year. He added that the increase has been witnessed in a period of two years, due to growth of economic activities. In response to long-term electricity shortage, Mr Chande said TANESCO is continuing with construction of the Julius Nyerere Hydroelectric Power Plant (JNHPP), which had reached 80.22 per cent until 31st December, 2022. “Water depth of the JNHPP reached 126.12 metres from the horizontal sea level,” he added, mentioning geothermal energy, solar energy and wind power as other envisaged long-term projects.