THE immaculate pitch grass at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam is ready to host high profile CAF Champions’ League group stage match between Simba against Raja Casablanca today. It is a battle for maximum points as both sides eye to claim a win in order to stay comfortable in group C of the contest with much focus being to reach the last eight stage. For Simba, they desperately need to win after losing 1-0 to Horoya in their opening away fixture, hence it is an opportunity for them to turn a new page. As such, all vital strategies for them to come out victorious have been considered since any negative outcome is going to be detrimental to them. On the other side, the Moroccan side just need either a draw or a win to facilitate their stay at the top of group C where they currently enjoy with 3 points plus five goals in the bag. At a pre-match briefing yesterday, Simba Head Coach Roberto Oliviera insisted that the game is not going to be easy but they have had good preparations in order to generate positive results. “Every game in the group stage of the Champions League is like a derby and more difficult but we have our objective to win like a derby encounter. “I have much respect for Raja Casablanca, they are a big club and Simba is a big club too. We have set up our winning strategies which will accomplish our target of reaching the semifinals and later becoming champions, why not,” said Oliviera. He added that playing at a full stadium, he demands his charges to showcase good football which will compel them to win the encounter and clinch all three points. His skipper John Bocco reiterated that basing on the training sessions conducted, they believe that they will emerge winners at the sound of the final whistle of the game. “We believe in our preparations and we want to seize all three points from our home arena which will open up our path towards making it to the last eight. “In order to attain this, we require more fans to flock at the venue in big numbers to provide us with full backing because that is what we deserve when playing on home soil,” remarked Bocco. On his part, Raja Casablanca coach Mondher Kebaier said they are aware that Simba are a good team and play well at home but have come here to fight for three points. “In our opening group C game, we won with a big goal margin but that should not make us relax because our priority is to pick maximum points,” he said.