PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has expressed his satisfaction with the success recorded in execution of various development projects across the country including Ruangwa District in Lindi Region. “We Ruangwa residents, we must continue to express our gratitude to President Samia Suluhu Hassan for approving a lot of money for the execution of various development projects… these are huge achievement,” the Premier said yesterday after inspecting  the construction of an administrative building  at Ruangwa Girls Secondary School  and classrooms at Kitandi  Secondary School. Mr Majaliwa said President Samia has agreed to provide funds for the construction of different infrastructures for provision of social services in the country. Hence, he said it is the responsibility of every citizen to protect the infrastructures so that they can bring the intended benefits. The PM, however,  called upon  students  in the country to study hard  because President Samia has  put more emphasis on education,  which is provided freely  from  preprimary to  advanced level. “You should work hard in order to have good academic performance… you should understand that you are students, thus you should avoid temptations that will affect your academic development … the society should protect the children to enable them to realise their goals,” he said. Majaliwa also called upon wananchi to stop invading nearby areas because the government has conserved them for future use of the respective institutions. Meanwhile, Majaliwa has inspected the construction of classrooms at Likangara Primary School where he commended the leadership of Ruangwa District Council for being innovative for the project. The project included construction of four classrooms, 24 pit latrines and four offices. On Tuesday Majaliwa reaffirmed the government’s commitment to ensuring that girls stay in school to fulfill their dreams, following guidelines issued for this to be realised. He said among the strategies developed in order to ensure inclusivity and quality in the education sector, includes more stringent laws against those who seek to hinder girls’ educational opportunities. “It is also our responsibility to ensure that more girls are enrolled in school, achieve the level they desire and graduate without any obstacles,” Early January this year, President Samia Suluhu Hassan assured that not a single student will miss out on an opportunity to join Ordinary Level studies due to the lack of classrooms. He further said in the past 100 days, the government has managed to construct a total of 8,000 fully furnished classrooms for secondary schools countrywide and expected to accommodate at least 400,000 students, adding: “This historic achievement will bring relief for at least 400,000 students.”