Tanzanian and Indian governments are planning to establish a state-of-the-art Information Technology (IT) college in Zanzibar which will offer ICT related studies in collaboration with Institute of Technology Madras (IITM) in October, this year. Minister for Education, Science and Technology Prof. Adolf Mkenda said this in Dar es Salaam after holding a meeting with Madras   Institute’s delegation over plans to establish the ICT College in the Isles. This is the second time we had a discussion about the establishment of the Institute. Previously the Minister of Education of India invited Prof Mkenda to India for a discussion and he was represented by the Deputy Permanent Secretary General, Prof James Mdoe in July last year. According to Professor Mkenda, preparations for the construction project are in the final stage. He added that a reason for locating the project to the Isles and not the Mainland was to maintain the existing historical union. The delegation from the IITM Institute in India is on tour visiting the Zanzibar Islands where the College will be situated then heading to the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST) in Arusha before returning to Dar es Salaam and visit to Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT). “On February 17 this year, representatives of the Government of Tanzania through a panel of experts from the Ministry of Education and the delegation from India are expected to go through a preliminary agreement before signing the official agreement (MoU) for  the construction of the Institute in Zanzibar,” Professor Mkenda said. India High Commissioner to Tanzania, Binaya Pradhan has thanked Tanzania through the Ministries of Education of Tanzania Mainland and Islands for supporting the establishment of the Institute since the move is strengthening existing good diplomatic relations between the two countries. According to the envoy,  the Institute of Technology Madras (IITM) of India is one of the best universities in India in the field of Information Technology and Information Technology (IT) and Engineering related studies issues, so it will provide opportunities for young people in our country to acquire knowledge of IT issues. The Commissioner Pradhan advised Tanzanian youths to exploit the precious opportunity to upgrade their knowledge in the area of ICT since the world has changed and globalization has accelerated the development.