Deputy Minister in the President’s Office (Public service management and Good Governance), Deogratius Ndejembi has instructed government agencies and institutions to subscribe to Government Enterprise Service Bus (GOVESB). Mr Ndejembi who was officiating an e – Government Agency (eGA) conference here yesterday expressed his displeasure on government agencies’ hesitancy in embracing the architectural software designed specifically for integration and interactions between applications and internal systems. “I’m a bit concerned by the slow pace of subscribing to the service, heads of institutions and agencies have a duty of ensuring that their offices embrace this service sooner than later,” directed the Deputy Minister. According to Mr Ndejembi, GOVESB creates an integrated Government which is connected to all Public Institutions to facilitate real-time data sharing. “As a government, we need to leverage on the potential of ICT in the digital economy,” he urged. The three-day meeting, themed Integrated ICT Systems for Effective Service Delivery brings together more than 1000 heads of government and institutions and ICT experts to deliberate on ICT related issues. For his part, Public Service Management and Good Governance permanent secretary, Dr Laurean Ndumbaro challenged government institutions and agencies to conduct their meetings digitally. The move, will simplify communication between one government departments to another, according to Dr Ndumbaro. “It makes a lot of sense if start running our daily on the basis of the digital space,” he said. In the same vein, he challenged the institutions to update their websites, claiming that some of the webpages were outdated. Earlier on, eGA Director General Engineer Benedict Ndomba informed the Deputy Minister that more than 300 government websites had been designed and established to date, adding that another 394 government agencies and institutions have been connected to the authority’s portal. eGA is established under the Executive Agencies Act No.30, 1997, Cap. 245 as a semi-autonomous Institution under President’s Office Public Service Management. The authority is charged with the mandate of providing coordination, oversight and provision of e-Government initiatives and enforcement of e-Government standards to Public Institutions.