YOUNG Africans and Namungo lock horns at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the Premier League encounter the teams’ Assistant coaches see as a tough battle. Both sides are playing their 22nd league fixtures of the campaign with eight matches remaining before the 2022-23 season ends. Elsewhere today, rejuvenated Ihefu welcome Mbeya City at Southern Highland Estate in Mbarali, Mbeya for another eye-catching encounter likely to attract the attention of many fans. Again, the late kick-off duel today will be at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma where hosts Dodoma Jiji entertain Azam seems to be an explosive duel. At a pre-match briefing yesterday, Yanga Assistant trainer Cedric Kaze said they are fully aware that the game is tough as they face a team which has vast experience of the Premier League games. “Without doubt, the match is going to be difficult but, we have had enough preparations and the good thing is that all players in the squad are looking forward to it,” Kaze said. He then sidelined Denis Nkane and Aboutwalib Mshery as the only two players who are unfit for the encounter while the rest are of good health and will be featured on Head Coach’s recommendation. “At the moment, what we are looking for is maximum points as such, in tomorrow’s game, our top priority is to accumulate three points and keep on chasing the championship,” Kaze said. His Namungo counterpart Shadrack Nsajigwa also forecasted a difficult match saying whenever they play against Yanga, it is always a hard game for both teams. “They are a good team with quality players and have a tremendous winning trend in the league but that does not bar us from putting on a spirited fight in search of good results,” he said. Moreover, the former Yanga player, Nsajigwa revealed that his players are mentally ready for the clash and that some of the shortfalls which emerged in their previous league assignments have been sorted out amicably. As it stands, Namungo sit in sixth place on the table with 21 points hence a win takes them to 32 points. On the other hand, Yanga who still navigate the 16-team table with 56 points, if they win in today’s match, will stamp 59 points thereby cementing their race for this season’s title.