MTWARA Regional Commissioner Colonel Ahmed Abbas has said the region is well set to host national launch of Uhuru Torch Race 2023. He thanked President Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan for choosing Mtwara Region as a host region for the event, saying it will bring with it multiple economic ripple effects to the people of the region. Speaking here on Wednesday, Col Abbas said the event to take place on April 2nd this year is a golden chance for Mtwara Region to promote its trade and investments opportunities. He said the event is set to bring together various stakeholders from outside Mtwara Region to explore trade, economic and investments opportunities in the region. “We really thank God for being given the opportunity to host the national launch of Uhuru Torch Race 2023. To us, the event (Uhuru Torch Race) is a golden chance to promote our region in terms of trade and investments opportunities,” he said. According to the RC, over 1000 visitors including development stakeholders are expected to attend the lighting of Uhuru Torch at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium. The RC said the government in the region is well prepared to host the event, calling on the ‘wananchi’, business people and service providers in the region to be ready to grab various opportunities to come along during the event. “We have already embarked on preparation towards hosting the National Uhuru Torch Race, the regional government in collaboration with stakeholders from public and private institutions including experts have created preparatory committees to coordinate the event come April 2, this year,” he said. He said the preparatory committees draw strategic plans aimed at ensuring the national launch of Torch Race is well handled. He mentioned some of the plans as organisation of various events including charity walks, education, social and economic symposiums in the region. Other events are organisation of women symposiums that would be conducted during International Women’s week with its theme talking about Uhuru Torch Race launch in Mtwara. Mtwara Region is currently implementing a strategic plan aimed at promoting investments and trade in the region. Potential investment areas in Mtwara include the deepest water port, high economic growth sectors of oil and gas and cashewnuts farming; others including fishing, mining, industry and tourism sectors.