TANZANIA Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) has gone next level in reformation as it has now become Tanzania Volleyball Federation (TVF). As revealed by its secretary general, Laurent Safari to the ‘Daily News’, the move was reached during the Annual General Meeting held recently which was among the agendas that also include approving the draft of the amended constitution. “The amendment of TAVA constitution began to be reviewed in 2020. Since the arrival of the new leadership under Chairman Magoti Mtani in the 2021 General Election, we took the matter more seriously. “After submitting it to all the members, they reviewed and expressed their opinions which have been included and provided in the draft that was approved by all votes in the meeting held in Dar es Salaam,” he said. Safari added that over 17 regions were represented in the successful meeting. “These changes aimed to move from the association system and become a federation, a system that is completely modern and compatible with corporate business,” he explained. However, he said  the changes are among the  directives from African (CABB) and international (FIVB) volleyball federations. “This will now help the new federation to run  itself commercially in everything and increase the responsibility for each leader going forward,” he emphasised. Adding, Safari said the association currently  puts in place strategies to raise the game especially by investing in youth projects  through centres that will be identified. According to him, they also plan to find sources of income that will help run the federation smoothly, while trying to organise as many competitions as possible that will see volleyball played throughout the year. “We as leaders are determined to bring this game to the next  level and put the country into the spotlight internationally,” he said. He mentioned one of the short-term strategies as to send the national Under 17 and Under 21 girls and boys’ teams into regionals and continental level competitions. Men’s senior team is also expected to participate in African-level competitions this year and according to Safari, they have already sent the budget to the government for them to consider. “We have planned to start the National League in June as we gear up to have a better event  than that of the last year,” he noted. Safari said they are delighted to see many teams have already registered for this year’s league.