EXIM Bank Tanzania has concluded a three-month campaign aimed at enticing the bank’s MasterCard holders to use their cards instead of cash for payment of goods and services at merchant’s Point of Sales (POS) or e-commerce sites. The three lucky winners will enjoy all-expenses-paid vacation trips to Dubai, Turkey and South Africa accompanied by their beloved ones. The Head of Retail Banking at Exim Bank, Mr Andrew Lyimo said apart from the three lucky winners of the campaign, a total of 300 other winners who use Exim Mastercards to make transactions won various prizes including cash, Smart Phones through weekly and monthly draws held throughout the campaign. “I would like to use this opportunity to congratulate all the weekly and monthly winners of the campaign and in a very special way, let me congratulate the three winners of the grand draw,” he said. The three winners of ‘Chanja Kijanja, Kimasta Zaidi’ campaign are namely John Ren, Hanza Ngilini and Ntemi Ezekiel. As we mentioned earlier the top winners will be rewarded with a five (5) days vacation trip to the mentioned destinations along with their beloved ones. The trips will be covered by Exim bank in all aspects that include visas, plane tickets and accommodation while on their vacations. “So, the first winner, John Ren, will go to Dubai with his partner and while there they will have the opportunity to visit various centres including the ‘Museum Of The Future’ and the Safari Desert. The second winner, Hanza Ngilini will go to Turkey with his partner and while there they will have the opportunity to visit several attractions including the famous Blue Mosque located in the city of Istanbul,” he said. The third winner, Ntemi Ezekiel, will travel to South Africa with the same package as well, according to Lyimo. Speaking more about the success of the campaign, the bank’s Head of Alternative Banking and Customer Service, Mr Silas Matoi said that since its inception it has succeeded in enticing more customers of the bank to use their Exim Bank MasterCard, a step which he said is helping the bank move towards offering services that are compatible with its major technological improvements in the provision of its financial services.