CCM National Chairperson, President Samia Suluhu Hassan, has stressed that the 46th anniversary of the ruling party was not just a celebration for its members but a firm and reliable foundation for all Tanzanians, and its comrades beyond Tanzania’s borders, in the spirit of Pan-Africanism. Dr Samia made the comments in her twitter account on Sunday, as CCM celebrated 46 years since it was formed following the merging of Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) and Afro-Shiraz Party (ASP) on February 5, 1977. Since its formation under the leadership of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere of TANU and Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume of ASP, CCM has remained to be a force to be reckoned with in advocating for liberation struggle and Pan-Africanism. In her tweet message on Sunday, Dr Samia said; “Happy 46th Anniversary to Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). “We celebrate this anniversary while fully aware that CCM is not just for its members, but a firm and reliable foundation for all Tanzanians, and comrades beyond our borders, in the spirit of Pan-Africanism. The work continues”. Meanwhile, speaking at the climax of the commemoration in Morogoro Region yesterday, the Secretary General of CCM, Mr Daniel Chongolo, said the sixth phase government is undertaking a number of development projects which are aimed at addressing challenges facing the people. The CCM’s top executive noted for instance that in Morogoro Region, the government has allocated over 500bn/- for the fiscal year 2022/2023 to implement development projects in health, education and water sectors, among others. “I have been in Morogoro Region for the past nine days to inspect execution of development projects as per the CCM manifesto of 2020-2025 and the progress is impressive save for some few projects,” he noted. Mr Chongolo assured the residents that nothing will stop the government in uplifting the lives of people by addressing all challenges. However, Mr Chongolo took issues with unimpressive ratio of teacher-to-pupils in some schools and shortage of medical equipment in some health facilities and tasked responsible government ministries to take swift actions to address the challenges. Responding to queries raised by the SG, Deputy Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Mr David Silinde, said the government has during the past few days written to 545 teachers who were overcrowded in urban areas to be distributed in remote areas. “During the first phase of this exercise, we have allocated a total of 607m/- to reallocate the teachers to areas facing the shortage of the instructors. The reallocation exercise of teachers to areas which are facing a shortage is ongoing,” he explained. In the education sector, Mr Silinde said the government has allocated 160bn/- during the current fiscal year to accommodate 1,076,368 pupils, who were selected to join Form One this year. On the other hand, Mr Silinde said the government has increased the budget allocation for Rural and Urban Roads Agency (TARURA) to 836bn/- during the current fiscal year from 275.5bn/- during the previous fiscal year. In Morogoro Region alone, budget allocation for TARURA has been increased to 34.6bn/- during this financial year up from 7.6bn/- which was allocated during fiscal year 2021/2022, Mr Silinde explained. For his part, the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Hussein Bashe, assured residents in Morogoro Region that all tobacco processing factories, which were closed have been re-opened to provide employment opportunities to the people. According to Mr Bashe, production of tobacco is set to increase from 50,000 metric tonnes during the previous farming season to 130,000 tonnes this farming season. “All these tobacco leaves to be produced during this season will be processed in Morogoro and thereby creating jobs for residents in Morogoro region and beyond,” he explained. The minister said the government has put in place various measures aimed at enabling the youth to engage in productive agriculture. Mr Bashe encouraged farmers to improve productivity since the government has allowed them to sell their produce across all borders at reasonable prices. “Let me assure you that no one will be barred from selling his produce across the borders, what the government will do is to provide subsidies on inputs to reduce production costs,” he explained. He noted further that the government also purchases farm produce from farmers and store it in reserves after which it is released in the market during offseason to stabilise prices and check skyrocketing of food prices in the local market. According to Mr Bashe, the government has so far released 23,000 tonnes of maize and plans are afoot to release additional 40,000 tonnes of maize grains to the market. The Minister was categorical that the maize will be sold directly to ordinary people at prices ranging from 700/- and 800/- per kilogramme as part of efforts by the government to ensure availability of the staple food to majority of Tanzanians at affordable prices.