THE Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) college located at Nyakato Ward, a few kilometres from Bukoba town has started offering  courses  in lifelong skills. VETA Bukoba college   Principal, Mr Maganga Kashindye, told the “Daily News’ in an interview that the  students  started  reporting on  January 16th, this year, while  about 125  first-year  students pursuing long courses  had by yesterday  reported for classes. He was optimistic that the VETA college will create high quality skills for youths and open doors to success. “We expect that by February 20th this year, all the enrolled students for first year will have reported. At full capacity under phase one about 400 students on long term courses would be enrolled while under phase two about 1,000 students taking short courses would be enrolled. The college will provide vocational skills in various fields including mechanical and electrical engineering, plumbing, carpentry, driving, construction, welding and painting,” he said. President Samia Suluhu Hassan launched the VETA project on October 12th, 2022 where she hailed the government of China for the continued support and the long friendship between the two countries. She directed the Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC) Albert Chalamila, District Commissioners and District Executive Directors (DEDs), to keep list of students who are enrolled at the VETA college. She directed them to ensure that upon their completion,  they are provided with work  equipment to start a new life. This will make them sustainable and self-employment, she said. The Head of State appealed to youths, especially those from Kagera region,   to utilize the VETA college  and pledged that once the studies commence,    the government would allocate 1.1bn/- each month  for operational costs and would also pay school fees to 20 students ( ten boys and ten girls) who hail from poor families pursuing long courses. Equally, she appealed to people where similar projects were being undertaken to ensure that they safeguard them and avoid vandalism for their own benefit and future generations. “This multi-billion project is of great importance. Apart from training youths in lifelong skills, it will also provide employment opportunities to surrounding villagers. The government is keen to construct VETA colleges in every district to enable the  youths to get  life-long skills,” she said. She explained that a recent study released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), indicate that about  12 per cent of Tanzanian youths were unemployed. It was on this basis that the government was working hard to provide them with life-long skills. Ambassador Ms Chen Mingjian, of the People’s Republic of China, explained that the implementation of  the  VETA project was  among China’s support to African countries including capacity building.  She was optimistic that the VETA college will create high quality skills for youths and open doors to success. The Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Adolf   Mkenda commended the government adding that  plans were being finalized to construct similar VETA colleges in  Geita,  Songwe and Rukwa regions.