THE Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts, and Sports, Pauline Gekul has instructed all councils to comply with the sports policy directives when building and repairing sports infrastructure in a bid to develop the sector. The instructions were made by the Minister on Thursday during the Parliament session when she answered the question imposed by the Misasi Constituent MP, Geoffrey Mwambe. Mwambe wanted to be informed when the government will start upgrading Boma Ball Stadium in Masasi to a level that will support the development of the young sportsmen and women in the district. The Deputy Minister responded that, according to the sports policy of 1995, paragraphs 1-4, the central government, local government authorities, institutions, organizations and individuals are responsible for the construction of sports infrastructure in the councils. “According to the sports policy of 1995, paragraphs 1-4, the central government, local government authorities, institutions, organizations and individuals are all responsible for the construction of sports infrastructure; therefore, I ask all councils to consider this policy, ‘’she explained. Insisting, Gekul said the councils should allocate funds for sports activities as well as rehabilitating infrastructure and building stadiums in Ruangwa, Geita, Bukoba, and Nyamagana in Mwanza. Recently, the Minister said that all people have a right to participate in sports including people with disabilities; therefore, sports infrastructures should be well constructed so that they can engage all the groups in the sector. She said one of the government’s strategies is to raise the sports sector. The major sports whose standards need to be raised are football, netball and basketball. Adding, she said this will go hand in hand with educating the community on the importance of involving people with disabilities in all events, and registering them in sports associations and clubs. “One of the government’s strategies is to raise three major sports widely played in the country; they are football, netball and basketball. Also providing education to the community on the importance of involving people with disabilities in all events, as well as registering them in sports associations and clubs,’’ she added The Minister has shown her gratitude for collaborating with the sports’ stakeholders in creating infrastructure in friendly environment for young people.