THE government has pledged to further improve the livestock sector to increase Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and individual income as a whole. The statement was made by the then Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Abdallah Ulega (now minister) on Wednesday during a ceremony of handing over 36 ‘boran heifer’ cows to Buchosa Council in Mwanza region. Mr Ulega said that the government’s goal is to see young people generate wealth through livestock sector by selling the livestock to the market. “Our country has 33 million cattle and productivity is still very low due to lack of raw materials in our factories… Livestock should increase productivity in GDP and citizens income”Mr Ulega said. He added that through the special programme of “Samia Ufugaji kwa Tija” (SAUTI), the government has succeeded to establish livestock fattening training where approximately 70 young people are given practical training at  Livestock Training Agency (LITA) and the Tanzania Livestock Research Institute ( TALIRI) in Misungwi District. Moreover, Mr Ulega thanked President Samia Suluhu Hassan for reforming the Livestock Sector adding that there are eight SAUTI training centres established by government for training the youths. He said through the centres young people will be taught the best and modern way to create pastures and access quality livestock. On his part, Sengerema District Commissioner, Senyi Ngaga thanked the government for getting the cow for the Buchosa council. Showing the government’s efforts in improving the sector, on September 26 last year, the then Minister of the docket, Mr Mashimba Ndaki called upon the Tanzania Livestock Research Institute (TALIRI) to advocate for research to increase productivity and value addition for livestock keepers. He gave the call when opening the TALIRI board, saying while the government works on new livestock policy, researchers must go for studies for increasing productivity and value addition. “You are key stakeholders as currently government works on a new livestock policy to give us clues on the needs and demands basing on researches for more productivity and improved welfare among livestock keepers,” said the Minister. “We have to know what fails the livestock industry, challenges facing the livestock keepers, market demands and status of the livestock quality for better solutions.” He said the TALIRI has to be at the forefront in formulation of the new livestock policy aimed at coming up with a way forward in developing the sector. “Taking into account the climate change effects and the human activities, we must formulate a policy which will consider the current situation of livestock market and standards of its products so that our policy could guide us according to the qualities set,” he said. TALIRI Board Chairman, Professor Sebastian Chenyambuga, assured the minister that they are prepared to improve on research to bring positive impacts to the sector.