MASSIVE investment that is being carried out by the government in renovating and upgrading the Tanga Port aim at uplifting its status as the longest-serving port in East Africa, it has been observed. The port is currently undergoing major improvement which involves expansion of the entrance channel, increase of the draft at the turning basin, procurement of modern equipment and deepening of its two berths. Tanzania Ports Authority Director General Plasduce Mbossa said here on Friday that, the authority has continued to improve the status of all ports in the country, including Tanga in order to fulfil the government ambition and vision for development. “We are all aware that Tanga Port was the main business gateway before the improvement of Dar es Salaam Port … it contributed greatly to the economic growth of Tanga, the neighbouring regions and the country in general,” the DG said while speaking to Tanga Port employees at the opening of the 2022 Dock Workers’ Union of Tanzania Annual General Meeting for Tanga branch. He added: “I want to assure you that the sixth phase government is determined to restore the status of Tanga Port which it has lost for five decades now.” Mr Mbossa commended President Samia Suluhu Hassan and her government for various measures being undertaken   to improve and invest at Tanga Port especially in improving infrastructure, purchase of equipment and maintenance of working tools. The DG further stressed efficiency in order to attract more businesses and promote the growth of other economic activities. “The main task of the port is to serve as catalyst to spur other economic activities that contribute in increasing cargo volume at the terminal,” he said. He said that Tang Port receives clinker because the region has a cement factory which is an economic activity, adding that the port can also handle crop cargo if there is consignment for export after bumper harvest. “In order for all these activities to be done effectively they need a port which is highly efficient, thus efficiency comes first, followed by revenue,” he said. Early this week, Tanga Port Manager Masoud Mrisha said that the first phase of the project which was implemented at a cost of 172.3bn/- involved expansion of the entrance channel, increase of the draft at the turning basin and procurement of modern equipment. On the other hand, Mr Mrisha said the implementation of the second phase of the project involved the construction of new 450-metre-long berths at the cost of 256.8bn/-. According to Mr Mrisha, currently the port has the capacity of handling 750,000 tonnes of cargo but upon completion of the project the volume is expected to increase to 3 million tonnes per year. He said increased efficiency will be another benefit of the project because numbers of days for cargo handling are going to be reduced from five to three depending on the size of the consignment. “The port is currently having modern equipment for cargo handling and the ships will now be docking at the port so they will be handled quickly and efficiently,” Mr Mrisha said.