THE Automobile Association of Tanzania (AAT) awards the best drivers and navigators  in a special Night of Champions in Dar es Salaam tonight. The drivers and navigators to be awarded today are the ones who excelled in the National Rally Championship series staged last year. The Atlantic Tanzania-backed  National Rally Championship Awards Night  takes place at Khana Khazana  along Ghuba Road in the city. Among the outstanding rally drivers to be awarded include, Tufail Amin who is the overall winner with 122 points. Others are Manveer Birdi in second position with 107 points and Harinder Deere who comes third having amassed 96 points during the 2022 Tanzania National Rally Championship series. The overall winner in navigation is Ravi Chana with  83 points, Manmeet Birdi with 81 points and Dave Sihoka, from Zambia also with 81 points at the third position. Overall winners of the National Rally Champion (NRC 2) are Gurpal Sandhu and Dave Sihoka. Sandhu hails from Arusha and usually races for the AESL Rally Team. His Navigator, Sihoka comes from Zambia. For the National Rally Champion (NRC 3) the winners are Tufail Amin and David Matete. Then come the youngsters; the Junior Champions getting the accolades for their top performance are Prince Charles and Mohammed Kimenya. The top award for the best team goes to Amapiano Motor Sports of Dar-es-salaam. The best club event title  goes to Arusha Motor Sports Club. The AMSC organises and hosts the annual Guru Nanak Motor Rally in the Northern Zone. As for the best club, the award has been won by Mount Uluguru Sports Club of Morogoro. Tanzania will stage the first National Rally Championship of 2023 in Iringa and the year opener will be staged by the Iringa Motor Sports Club. The Rally takes place between 13 and 14, May 2023. It will be followed by the Rally of Tanga, which takes place in the second week of June 2023. In July, Tanzania hosts the African Rally Championships event through the Automobile Association of Tanzania in July this year. The Rally of Morogoro is going to rev off in  September while Arusha Rally will be staged in October this year.