THE Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Kuwait-based non-governmental organisation called Children’s Heart Charity Association to provide open heart surgery and cardiovascular services for children with heart conditions. The three-years agreement signed on Tuesday will see the BMH serve children with cardiovascular diseases taking the advantage of Dodoma geographical position to save the lives of many children. BMH Chief Executive Officer, Dr Alphonce Chandika identified three areas of focus under the memorandum as capacity building, medical supplies and humanitarian support. To start with, 100 children with heart condition attained training during the free camp as the CHC in collaboration with BMH provide free diagnosis and treatment for children suffering from congenital heart and rheumatic heart disease. “The diseases require cardiac intervention and open heart surgery which will be part of the services under the agreement, since the majority of children with heart conditions are from the Lake Zone regions, then it will be ideal to many,” said Dr Chandika. He said the agreement will also focus on assuring medical and surgical equipment availability at the hospital to strengthen the cardiac medical treatment and services for children. He mentioned another area as capacity building for the hospital surgical team so that when the Kuwait experts depart, then, the local experts can carry out the services on their own. Dr Chandika said the Kuwait eyes to make BMH a centre of excellence for paediatrics cardiac in the country in the near future. Children’s Heart Charity Association expressed their commitment to collaborate with the BHM in cardiology services to children and save lives as well as making the hospital a medical hub when it comes to paediatrics cardiac services. Tanzanian Ambassador to Kuwait, Said Mussa was impressed by the teamwork shown by the BMH during the joint cardiac team which started on February 4, this year. “Healthy nation is key as it gives room for the public to participate in the economic activities uninterruptedly, thus increasing productivity and social welfare,” said Ambassador Mussa.