THE 20th edition of the Sauti za Busara festival came to a thrilling crescendo last Sunday after three days of powerful performances that breathed life into the Old Fort and the Stone Town neighbourhood. The event saw top artists heightening the jam-packed Old Fort and Fumba Town stages under the theme: “Our Diversity, Our Wealth”. The rich line-up included Tanzanian artists such as Mzee wa Bwax, Damian Soul, Patricia Hillary, Zawose Reunion, Stone Town Rockerz, Uwaridi Female Band, Zan Ubuntu, Supa Kalulu, Zenji Boy na Wenzake, Waungwana Band and Culture Musical Club, Zanzibar’s traditional taarab orchestra. In his remarks, the festival director Yusuf Mahmoud said the edition was a milestone given the humble beginnings and the several challenges their organisation had faced. “Even when we faced the most difficult situations where we almost had no option but to close, our team never gave up,” he said. And with the assurance of core funding from Fumba Town by CPS covering costs to run its office, the festival has already announced the next edition will take place between 9 – 11 February 2024. Over three nights, over 30 groups thrilled the audience who had travelled worldwide to catch a glimpse of Africa’s musical diversity and talents. For many of the revellers in attendance, it was their first time at the festival; others had attended almost all editions for two decades, such as the celebrated artist Mwandale Mwanyekwa, aka Mama Afrika. Many art enthusiasts expressed surprise and wonder at the professionalism of the organisation, the high-quality sound and the punctuality of all the shows. Musicians hailed from Eastern, Western, Northern, Southern and Central African regions for the first time since the pandemic outbreak brought the world to its knees three years ago. As well as the ‘Movers & Shakers’ networking opportunities for music industry professionals, another element of this year’s festival that was highly praised was the ‘Swahili Encounters’ project, which brought together 11 musicians from Tanzania, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Democratic Republic of Congo and Sudan for four days of rehearsals and collaborations, ending with a spellbinding performance on Saturday night. South African group BCUC, who were the undisputed heroes of Sauti za Busara 2019 with their powerful messages and explosive performances, were invited to return for this special 20th-anniversary edition, where they gave another breathtaking show. Female artists who gave the strongest performance were Asia Madani from Sudan, Nasibo from Zimbabwe, Naxx Bitota from DRC, Atse Tewodros Project from Ethiopia and Italy and Zily from Mayotte, all had their voices heard on two stages inside the Old Fort. However, the bill was topped by Tiken Jah Fakoly, from Ivory Coast, who is widely known as Africa’s greatest reggae star. He brought the house down with a powerful performance that lasted almost two hours with a set that was full of conscious lyrics and positive messages, for Africa and the world. The 20th Sauti za Busara festival was powered by Fumba Town – a project by CPS, Ignite Culture, CRDB Bank, Australian High Commission, Embassy of France, Institut Français, Kendwa Rocks, Mjini FM, ST Bongo TV, Serikali ya Mapinduzi ya Zanzibar, Adventure247 Marketing Agency, Zanzibar Serena Hotel, Coconut FM, Zanlink, Emerson Zanzibar, 2Tech Security and more.