THE government through the Prime Minister’s Office (Labour, Youth, Employment and Disabled), has said it is setting up a strategic plan to ensure that youths in East Africa become key stakeholders on issues related to peace. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Thursday during a review of peace and youth project through cooperation with the Global Peace Foundation Tanzania and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Deputy Minister for the docket, Mr Patrobas Katambi said the move is aimed at ensuring that the youth are being involved in various activities. “I am pleased with the formation of the national youth forum on peace and security and I have been informed that they will meet to deliberate on issues related to peace… I believe this will bring efficiency and motivate youths to be ambassadors of peace,” he said. Mr Katambi noted that the government supports the stakeholders’ efforts of promoting peace and security, pledging further support to ensure the issue is given priority. Global Peace Foundation Tanzania Country Director, Ms Martha Nghambi said her organisation in collaboration with the United Nations Association of Tanzania, Scout Tanzania and the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute came up with the project with the aim of promoting peace and make the youth understand the importance of peace. “The main objective of this project is to nurture youths so that they can become patriotic and love their country and participate in various issues related to peace,” she said. UNDP Project Officer, Mr Gamaliel Sunu, said the project was implemented in southern regions including Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma. He said the project has reached many youths and motivate them to take the responsibility of spreading peace. Mr Sunu added that they have also breached parents, various groups and leaders starting from the grassroots level where they were taught on how they can safeguard peace and refrain from evil acts. He said the future plan of the project is to reach many youths in all regions across the country. For his part, the project founder from Mwalimu Nyerere Institute, Mr Joseph Butiku,  said that youths and peace are part of the society, thus predecessors have the responsibility  of  teaching youths  on how  they can live  in the society by observing ethics, patriotism and hardworking. “We who are adult have the responsibility  of helping youths  to understand that  they are part of the society  and the issues of  peace, unity and development through the works they are required to do  are society issues. Anglican Church of Tanzania Bishop Jakson Sostenes urged the youth to be patient in seeking for wealth by ensuring their happiness does not affect other people’s peace.