WE get this weekend’s stories from the country’s Capital City of Dodoma, where the government, through the Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office responsible for the environment, is reported to have made orders related to noise pollution. Here is how the Daily Blog’s reporter captured the event: “The government has issued a seven-day ultimatum to all places of worship, bars, clubs, social halls and business operators who engage in sound pollution to stop or else face closure” (February 4, page 4). The news item is titled: “Government opts for stringent actions against ‘sound’ polluters”. To me, “sound polluters” gives an impression like somebody is polluting the sound. That is why I would stick to “noise” rather than “sound”, and modify the headline to reflect this: “Government opts for stringent actions against ‘noise’ polluters”. The minister is reported to have said that his office had received a number of complaints from the public over ‘the’ noise pollution that had caused ‘adverse’ ‘healthy’ and psychological effects”. Now, the word “healthy” is an adjective meaning: “in good physical or mental condition”. The word “adverse” is an adjective as well, but meaning the opposite of “healthy”. It means something harmful or unfavourable. You possibly would not have a situation that is both adverse and healthy. The culprit, in the sentence under review, is the use of the word “healthy”, an adjective, instead of “health”, a noun. If we substitute “healthy” with “health”, the sentence makes sense: “The Minister is reported to have said that his office had received a number of complaints from the public, over noise pollution that had caused ‘adverse health’ and psychological effects”. The following is further reported: “In his meeting ‘with media’, the Minister directed the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) to make a ‘close follow’ ‘to’ those engaged in noise pollution and should not keep on playing music ‘in high sounds’, the places should be shut out”. The above reporting needs a number of changes. One, the Minister met with “the” media, not just “he met with media”. You need a definite article before “media”. Two, you make “a close follow up on” something, not “a close follow to” something. Three, “in high sounds” could be replaced with “loudly”, and, lastly, “shut out” could be replaced with “closed”. Here is the proposed adjusted version: “In his meeting ‘with the media’, the Minister directed the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) to make a ‘close follow up’ ‘on’ those engaged in noise pollution and order them not to keep on playing music ‘loudly’, otherwise, such places should be closed”. The Minister is reported to have emphasised on this: “He directed business and churches playing music ‘on high sounds’ to stop the ‘trend’ or else they will; be closed”. Clearly, this sentence, like the preceding one, needs re-writing whereby I would use the word, “habit”, instead of “trend”. “He directed businesses and churches playing music ‘very loudly’ to stop the ‘habit’ or else, their places will be closed”. Hopefully, the Minister’s directives will be implemented, so that we live in a relatively quiet environment. Page 5 of the paper is dedicated to colourful and large photographs, one of which drew our interest. Its caption reads as follows: “Prime Minister, Mr Kassim Majaliwa (centre) poses at Parliament grounds for a souvenir photo with visitors who went ‘to familiarise’ with the National Assembly affairs in Dodoma recently. On Premier’s left is Arusha Urban Lawmaker, Mr Mrisho Gambo”. The words: “Prime Minister” and “Premier” should be preceded by the definite article: “the”. At the same time, you do not just “familiarise with” something. You familiarise ‘yourself’ with” something. Here is a revised version of the caption: “The Prime Minister, Mr Kassim Majaliwa (centre), poses at Parliament grounds for a souvenir photo with visitors who went ‘to familiarise themselves’ with the National Assembly affairs in Dodoma recently. On the Premier’s left, is Arusha Urban Lawmaker, Mr Mrisho Gambo”. Enjoy your quiet weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com