THE construction of infrastructures for the East Africa Skills for Transformation and Regional Integration Project (EASTRIP) has kicked off at the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), with the government demanding speed but value for money. It involves construction works for the Proposed Regional Flagship ICT Centre (RAFIC) and Student Hostel Buildings at the DIT Campus. Recently, the institute signed a contract with the Chinese contractor, M/S Shanxi Construction Investment Group for the construction which will take 12 months. “You should closely supervise the contractor so that he completes the construction on time. We need speed and value for money,” Deputy Permanent Secretary for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Prof James Mdoe, directed. Prof Mdoe made the directive yesterday when he visited the DIT to see the progress of the project. “I have come while the project is at early stages so as we set goals before the construction has gone far,” he stated. He assured that the ministry was ready to cooperate in ensuring that the contractor completes construction within 12 months as per the contract since the infrastructures are needed for learning. “The contractor should have a work plan for procurement. Most of tend to delay works as they attribute it to waiting for materials. Something which is unacceptable,” he stated. However, he commended the DIT for well implemention of the project. “So far, you have perfomed well according to criteria for securing funds to continue with the implementation,” he pointed out. Earlier, when briefing Prof Mdoe over the project, DrJoseph Matiko, project coordinator, said the project is strategic after the government had looked at strategic areas for development, which includes the ICT sector. The 37-billion project implementation started un 2019 qnd set for completion in 2024. Once completed, apart from accomodating students it would also be training lecturers. The project will have two buildings, one for hostels and the other for teaching (rafic building). He said the Rafic building will have capacity of accomodating 1500 students at once, with a conference hall capacity of 400 people. On other hand, the hostel will accommodate 500 students.