NO Tanzanian golfer confirmed entry as the deadline for the South African Women’s Amateur Stroke Play & Match Play Championships ended on January 31 this year. “It is mostly like nobody is going there until now,” confirmed the Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) honorary Secretary Madina Iddi who is based in Arusha. The high-ranked Women’s Golf South Africa (WGSA) had extended the deadline from January 24 to 31st to give more room for those wishing to compete. The Championships are scheduled to tee off at the two different courses; Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate The Lakes and The Woods in South Africa and bring together top African ladies who have been invited including Tanzania, but this time around Tanzanian ladies are likely to miss it. “I think financial constraints barred their entries to the event,” Madina said. Adding, she said the timing has also played a part in it as the cycle is not yet active because people have just returned from holidays so they are not yet settled. “I would also want to return to the event after last competed in 2020, but I could not register for the event too because of work responsibilities,” she said. Madina was among the four East African golfers who played in the event including Ugandan top golfers Irene Nakalembe (now turned to paid rank), Peace Kabasweka, and Wendy Angudeyo. Madina finished 29th overall in the 54-hole stroke-play battle that drew over 75 ladies from Switzerland, Reunion, Uganda and hosts South Africa to join among 32 golfers who qualified for the Match Play Championship. She was pitted against South African star Kaylah Williams, who was the third overall in the stroke-play and lost by a single stroke at the very end of the 18th hole. The events are going to be played over six days that include Sunday 19 February to Friday 24 February 2023. Madina stressed  this would be an opportunity for local ladies to gain much-needed experience as South Africa is a developed golf country in the continental. “Country needs sports well-wishers and sponsors to support players especially the upcoming girls for the individual and future national team benefit who could travel to South,” she said.