VODACOM Tanzania Plc has handed over brand-new computers worth 115m/- to 16 schools in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Region to give teachers and students access to books and other learning materials online for free. Speaking on behalf of Moshi District Commissioner Mr Kisare Makori during a brief handover ceremony held at Mrereni Secondary School in Southern Kilema, the Ward Officer of Western Vunjo, Mr Khamisuu Uledi commended Vodacom Tanzania for their commitments towards improving education and leading in school connectivity projects across the country. “The provision of education has experienced tremendous changes globally, from depending on books to accessing all materials from the internet. I applaud Vodacom for the donation of computers to our region which will be utilised to boost efficiency among teachers,” he said. “I urge all schools that benefited from these devices to make proper use of them and I believe that they will help improve teaching practices as well,” The 10 desktop computers were handed over to five secondary schools namely Marlex, Sakayo, Mrereni, Mangoto, and Mwika. The other schools are Kirongo, Mashati, Kwakoko, Mkuu, Tarakea, Nanjara, Mbomai, Umarini, Ndueni, Motamburu, and Urauri as the project target to reach 300 schools. Addressing the project’s objectives, the Vodacom Northern Zone Manager, Mr George Venanty said, they were delighted to continue to be key government partners in supporting the education sector by enabling teachers and students to access free online teaching and learning materials. “The handover is the extension of the E-Fahamu project launched in 2017 and has so far benefited almost 300,000 students. I believe they will boost efficiency amongst the beneficiaries,” he said. “I would like to thank the government for their endless partnership with us not only in the education sector but also in other sectors. On her side the Headmistress of Mrereni Secondary School in Southern Kilema, Ms Mary Gladstone said, they were honoured to receive the desktop computers because of a fruitful partnership between the government and Vodacom.