TANZANIA’S farmers and other stakeholders around the world in the agriculture sector have met to discuss how to improve vanilla availability globally using e-commerce. The vanilla farmers meeting was held in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday and was organised by DHL Express Tanzania, the world leading logistic firm, aiming at helping locals meet international entrepreneurs through e-commerce. The DHL Express, Country Manager, Mr Humphrey Pule said Tanzania has a unique opportunity to increase the crop output and export since it is among the top three exporters of vanilla in Africa after Madagascar and Uganda. “Tanzania has a good opportunity to export vanilla which will help improve the lives of farmers and those in its value chain today,” he said. Mr Pule said DHL Express is interested in the agriculture sector because the aim is to improve vanilla production and simplify logistics to reach the world market quickly and at affordable freight charges. “We transport some of the vanilla samples to customers free of charge. A good example is in the fishing industry under fishcams project for sardines in Kigoma. These sardines are popular now in Canada, US and Australia,” Mr Pula said. DHL Express Tanzania, Sales and Marketing Officer, Ms Cartus Ntaganda said the country’s vanilla is pure organic since there are no chemicals, hand pollinated and use organic manure. “A lot of vanillas that are imported contain chemicals that help in preserving them but with Tanzania being different, they are organic and safe and hence the best in the market,” Ms Ntaganda said. According to her, market statistics in Africa show Tanzania to be the seventh vanilla producer in Africa, and the third exporter after Madagascar and Uganda. In foods and beverages, vanilla is a well-known flavouring. In manufacturing, vanilla is used as flavouring in syrups for medications. It is also used as a fragrance in perfumes. DHL is the global leader in the logistics industry specialising in international shipping, courier services and transportation.