The efforts of Geita Gold Mining Limited (GGML) to build the capacity of university graduates by providing them internship program have continued to be seen after the company emerged as the first runner up in the awards organized by the Tanzania Employers Association (ATE) and the National Council for Vocational Education and Vocational Training (NACTVET). GGML has emerged as the first runner up in the group of large employers due to its contribution for supporting skills development in Tanzania through Apprenticeship, Internship and Workplace training. The move comes a few days after the company received 50 graduates from various universities who have enrolled in GGML Internship Programme. Among them 30 women and 20 men. Last year, a total of 26 youth graduated from the training within GGML. Speaking after receiving the award, in an event held at the weekend in Dar es Salaam, Human Resources Officer from GGML, Charles Masubi thanked the Government for recognizing the company’s contribution to the production of excellent young people who are accepted in the labor market. Earlier, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who was an official guest at the event, said the Government will continue to cooperate fully with the private sector in providing vocational education and training to generate professionals with sufficient skills needed in various sectors. He also commended the employers for providing opportunities for practical training, apprenticeships, internships and the way they participate in preparing the curricula used in colleges and institutions of technical education and vocational training. He called on all employers in the country to continue to cooperate with the Government in ensuring that the goals of developing skills and increasing the labor market are successful for the future of the nation’s development. “The development of the economy of any country is highly dependent on the level of skills of the labor force that it had. Therefore, the contribution of stakeholders is important,” he said. He added that cooperation is important in developing skills for building an industrial economy. “I want to use this opportunity to congratulate you but the Government recognizes and appreciates the efforts in providing employment to our graduates, we congratulate you very much.” Commenting on the year’s slogan that says “Strengthening Vocational Education and Vocational Training for the Production of Skilled Workers in Tanzania”, the Prime Minister said that the slogan is strong as it emphasizes the building of skilled human resources. And, the Minister of Education, Science and Technology Professor Adolf Mkenda said the Government will continue to manage the implementation of the National Strategy for the Development of Skills for the Year 2016/17-2025/26, one of the objectives of which is to have cooperation between employers, stakeholders and colleges or educational institutions. For his part, the Chief Executive of the Tanzania Employers’ Association (ATE), Suzanne Ndomba-Doran said that in order for Tanzania to be able to fully participate in the competitive market of East Africa and the world, deliberate steps must be taken to develop skills, especially for young people.