YOUNG Africans said the 1.5bn/-sponsorship deal the club signed with Haier Group Corporation for CAF Confederation Cup mission is a big boost to the club economically. The country’s solo envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup, Yanga secured the package on Monday night in Dar es Salaam insisting that the contract is specifically valid for their Confederation Cup mission. “As you know, we already qualified for the group stage of the Confederation Cup and the coming in of Haier is going to help us a lot in terms of economic stability,” the club’s President Hersi Said clarified. He added: “According to restrictions imposed by CAF whereby betting companies are not allowed to sponsor teams at this stage of the competition, our kit will have Haier logo and not SportPesa. “SportPesa will continue to be our main sponsor in the Premier League and other contests which do not have restrictions on betting firms and the good thing is that they (SportPesa) have understood us.” Also, the club introduced a new special kit to be worn in the group stage matches whose price is pegged at 50,000/- per piece. According to Hersi, the new kits which began to be sold yesterday will only be accessed at the club’s headquarters at Jangwani Street in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam. In the Confederation Cup, Yanga are packed in group D together with TP Mazembe from the Democratic Republic of Congo, US Monastirienne of Tunisia and AS Real De Bamako of Mali, and the club target to make it beyond the group stage. Yanga’s first match will see them visiting the Tunisian side on February 12th before hosting TP Mazembe at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on February 19th. On February 26th, the country’s envoys will visit Real Bamako in Mali before hosting them in the city on March 8th. Then on March 19th, Yanga welcome US Monastirienne in Dar es Salaam ahead of their last assignment against TP Mazembe in Lubumbashi on April 2nd. However, the Jangwani street side already indicated that their number one target is to go past the group stage of the Confederation Cup. Until now, no official communication from the club has been made as to whether they will play the friendly game(s) prior to the commencement of the group stage mission.